<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Manually Approving Clients</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->
</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->
 <h1>This has been deprecated in favor of new <a href="server/manuals/cli.xhtml">command line tools</a>. At some point it will be removed.</h1>
<h1>Manually Approving a Client</h1>

<p>There may be times when you need to manage approval for a client. Initially, clients do not have access approved. It
    may also be the case someday that a client’s security is compromised and you need to disallow all actions with it.
    This section describes how to manually change the approval of a client. In the initial release of OAuth for MyProxy,
    there are two methods for approving client request. The first is to use a command line tool that is supplied, the
    second which only works for mysql-backed stores that directly accesses the database. Administrators are strongly
    encouraged, if possible, to configure email notifications in all cases.</p>

<h2>Using the CLI (command line interface)</h2>

<p>The CLI allows an administrator to approve or disapprove a client from a the command line, independent of whether the
    server is running. The two methods are directly, in which the CLI accesses the store and updates it and indirectly,
    in which the CLI deposits a request that the server picks up. In the indirect case, the server polls a given
    directory. This is transparent and is taken from the server's configuration. The CLI works with all stores.</p>

<h2>Sample sessions</h2>

<p>The easiest way to run the CLI is to check out the module oa4mp-server-api (see the <a
        title="Getting started with the OAuth for MyProxy Server"
        href="server/maunals/getting-started.xhtml">getting
    started</a> page for how to download it) from svn and build it, then start it from the command line. The build
    creates <em>two</em> jars, <span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">oa4mp-approver.jar</span>, which
    is the actual program, and <span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">oa4mp-server-api-xxx.jar</span>
    which is the current build. As with all command line java programs, you need to set the class path
    (<strong>Note</strong>: This code currently lives in the main trunk of svn. Make sure you have the correct copy. Two
    samples should suffice. Note that maven will generate its usual informational messages which I am omitting.</p>

<p>Running the jar. There is currently one way to get a jar:</p>
<ul>
    <li>download the source code and run it from within maven</li>
</ul>
<p><span style="font-family: courier new,courier; font-size: smaller;">&gt; mvn clean install -P approver<br/></span>
</p>

<p><span style="font-family: courier new,courier; font-size: smaller;">&gt; cd target </span></p>

<p><span style="font-family: courier new,courier; font-size: smaller;">&gt; java -jar oa4mp-approver.jar -cfg /home/ncsa/dev/csd/config/oa4mp-server.xml  -name in-memory</span>
</p>

<p> This points it to the server config file, <span
        style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">oa4mp-server.xml</span> and the tells it to invoke the named
    configuration in that file called <span style="font-family: arial,helvetica,sans-serif;">in-memory</span>. In this
    case, the configuration file points to a memory store, there will not be any approvals found. You should see the
    following scroll past:</p>


<p><span style="font-family: courier new,courier; font-size: smaller;">logging to file /home/ncsa/dev/main/ncsa-security-all/myproxy/oa4mp-server-api/log.xml</span>
</p>

<p style="font-family: courier new,courier; font-size: smaller;"><span
        style="font-family: courier new,courier; font-size: smaller;">(No entries found. You will need to manually enter the id.)</span><br/><span
        style="font-family: courier new,courier; font-size: smaller;">Enter the number of the client to approve or disapprove, OR, enter an id, starting with a /</span><br/><span
        style="color: #3366ff;"><strong><span style="font-family: courier new,courier; font-size: smaller;">/myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/77be5883050848c7bb45484cb8567c8e</span></strong></span><br/><span
        style="font-family: courier new,courier; font-size: smaller;">Enter your approver name:</span><br/><span
        style="color: #3366ff;"><strong><span style="font-family: courier new,courier; font-size: smaller;">jeff</span></strong></span><br/><span
        style="font-family: courier new,courier; font-size: smaller;">Enter Approve or Deny (A/D)</span><br/><span
        style="color: #3366ff;"><strong><span
        style="font-family: courier new,courier; font-size: smaller;">A</span></strong></span><br/><span
        style="font-family: courier new,courier; font-size: smaller;">Commit changes? (y/n)</span><br/><span
        style="color: #3366ff;"><strong><span
        style="font-family: courier new,courier; font-size: smaller;">y</span></strong></span></p>

<p>My responses are in bold-faced. The server <strong><em>must</em></strong> have polling configured or the approval
    will never be found.</p>

<h3>Example against a file store.</h3>
<pre>
&gt; java -cp oa4mp-server-api-1.0.6.jar -jar oa4mp-approver.jar -cfg /home/ncsa/dev/csd/config/oa4mp-server.xml  -name filestore
logging to file /home/ncsa/dev/main/ncsa-security-all/myproxy/oa4mp-server-api/log.xml

0. (D) myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/3af1b61bae834e9e373bbd774535ef43
1. (A) myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/77be5883050848c7bb45484cb8567c8e
2. (A) myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/2ed8e10c4932b284de9fd3d8bdcfc830
3. (A) myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/29d1d2b95a29848f77b22b0af129b611
Enter the number of the client to approve or disapprove, OR, enter an id, starting with a /
<strong>0</strong>
Enter your approver name:
<strong>jeff</strong>
Enter Approve or Deny (A/D)
<strong>A</strong>
Commit changes? (y/n)
<strong>y</strong>
</pre>
<p>This lists all the approvals in the store and indicates with an A or D if the request has been approved or
    disapproved. Entering the line number (these are printed on the left) will select the record. You may approve an
    pending request or disapprove it. Selecting y at the end commits the changes. This also works for any SQL-backed
    store as well.</p>


<h3>Enabling polling on the service.</h3>

<p>To allow for client approval polling in the service, you need to set a polling directory and, if desired a polling
    interval (default is 60000 ms or 1 minute.) What is polling? simply put, for stores where there is no way to
    directly notify the server of approvals (such as a memory or file store),
    polling tells the server to check for new approvals at a
    given interval in a specific location. This does, however, work for any configured storage method including SQL stores,
    so this mechanism can be used generally.
    Attributes are set in the server configuration file.
    For instance, here is a server configuration with polling enabled and email notifications off:</p>

<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;server
        pollingDirectory="/var/www/config/polling"
        pollingInterval="5000"/&gt;
   &lt;-- bunch of other stuff --&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>

<p>which stores all transactions, request and approvals in memory and specifies a MyProxy server other than localhost.
    The server polls the directory every 5 seconds, (which is very often indeed.) You should have the <i>same</i>
    polling directory specified for the CLI and the server. The CLI puts the approvals there, and the server
    eventually reads them.</p>

<p>If no polling directory is given, then polling is disabled.</p>

<h3>Another method, suitable for testing servers only</h3>

<p>This consists of replacing the RegistrationServlet in the web.xml file with the AutoRegistrationServlet. The effect
    is to <strong><em>automatically approve</em></strong> every client request. This is an inherently insecure system
    but is of great use when debugging a server deploy. Administrators should feel free to use this but simply revert to
    the standard servlet when deployment ready.</p>

<h2>Direct approval for Maria DB and MySQL stores.</h2>

<p>The steps for manually toggling the approval bit in the either Maria DB or MySQL stores are as follows.</p>
<ul>
    <li>Log onto a machine that can access Maria DB or MySQL</li>
</ul>
<p style="padding-left: 60px;" dir="ltr">Note:Both Maria DB and MySQL allows access per host and localhost access should work but any
    other should not unless specifically configured to do so.</p>
<ul>
    <li>Log in as the approver (the default username in the install script is oa4mp-approver) to the databasse on the machine
        where the database resides:
    </li>
</ul>
<pre style="padding-left: 60px;" dir="ltr">mysql -u oa4mp-approver -p oauth</pre>
<p style="padding-left: 60px;" dir="ltr">Note:This sets you to use the oauth database and will prompt your for the
    approver’s password.</p>
<ul>
    <li>Update the client’s database entry:</li>
</ul>
<pre style="padding-left: 30px;">UPDATE client_approvals set approved=true where oauth_consumer_key=’myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/274ab37ef365b7c384a003bc7’;</pre>
<p>Note the single quotes around the id. You should also identify yourself as the approver (usually this is just you
    email address):</p>
<pre dir="ltr">UPDATE client_approvals set approver=’your.name@whatever.org’ where oauth_consumer_key=’myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/274ab37ef365b7c384a003bc7’;</pre>
<p>In a similar way, you could set the approved flag to false and disallow the client from any future actions. You can
    check that the update took by issuing</p>
<pre dir="ltr">select * from client_approvals;</pre>
<p>This will display everything in the database. You could also restrict it to the single entry by issuing</p>
<pre dir="ltr">select * from client_approvals where oauth_consumer_key=’myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/274ab37ef365b7c384a003bc7’;</pre>
<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->

</body>
</html>