<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Monitoring servers.</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->
</head>

<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->

<p>
    A monitor is simply a client which executes the initial call to an OA4MP server. This works solely
    from the command line -- no web server is needed. This is exactly the analog of the ping command
    in that it shows the server up and active. Since a full test of the lifecycle requires that the client
    be able to accept callbacks i.e. be running a web server,
    it is not possible to test more than the first call. The intent of the monitor is
    not to show that everything about
    <a href="http://grid.ncsa.illinois.edu/myproxy/oauth/client/index.xhtml">configuring a client</a> still works.
</p>

<p>To get a functional monitor, you
    get the <a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/oa4mp-monitor.jar">oa4mp-monitor.jar</a>
    and the
    <a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/oa4mp-monitor">oa4mp-monitor script</a>.
    For  <span style="background-color: #ff6600;">OAuth 2.0</span> you would get
    <a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/oa2-monitor.jar">oa2-monitor.jar</a>
    with the script at <a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/oa2-monitor">oa2-monitor</a>
    The default setup is like any other <a href="http://grid.ncsa.illinois.edu/myproxy/oauth/server/manuals/cli.xhtml">command
        line tool</a>
    with an identical directory layout and it will try to use the configuration found in the default location
    of <code>/opt/oa4mp/etc/admin-cfg.xml</code>.
</p>

<p>
    Steps to set up a monitor are

    1. Register it with a server
    <a href="http://grid.ncsa.illinois.edu/myproxy/oauth/client/manuals/registering-with-a-server.xhtml">OAuth 1.0a based servers</a>
    or, <a href="http://grid.ncsa.illinois.edu/myproxy/oauth/client/manuals/registering-with-an-oauth2-server.xhtml">
    <span style="background-color: #ff6600;">OAuth 2.0</span> based servers. </a>
    be sure to follow any and all instructions in given since the two mehtods of registration are different.
    <br/><br/>
    2. Write a configuration file. This should have
    <a href="http://grid.ncsa.illinois.edu/myproxy/oauth/server/configuration/server-email.xhtml">mail configured</a>.
    A sample OAuth 1.0a configuration would be
</p>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;client name="my-monitor"&gt;
      &lt;id&gt;myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/your/id/goes/here&lt;/id&gt;
      &lt;serviceUri&gt;http://your.server.org/oauth/&lt;/serviceUri&gt;
      &lt;callbackUri&gt;https://your.server.org/client/ready&lt;/callbackUri&gt;
      &lt;lifetime&gt;864000&lt;/lifetime&gt;
      &lt;publicKeyFile&gt;/path/to/public-key.pem&lt;/publicKeyFile&gt;
      &lt;privateKeyFile&gt;/path/to/private-key.pem&lt;/privateKeyFile&gt;
      &lt;mail enabled="true"
            useSSL="true"
            username="your-username"
            password="your password"
            debug="false"
            server="your.mail.server"
            recipients="email-address.of.recipient"&gt;
         &lt;messageTemplate&gt;/path/to/monitor-message.template&lt;/messageTemplate&gt;
         &lt;subjectTemplate&gt;/path/to/monitor-subject.template&lt;/subjectTemplate&gt;
       &lt;/mail&gt;
       &lt;logging
            logFileName="/path/to/logs/oa4mp-monitor.xml"
            logName="oa4mp"
            logSize="100000"
            logFileCount="2"
            debug="true"/&gt;
   &lt;/client&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>

<p>
    A quick comment about the callback: the server will not get far enough in the delegation request to
    actually every use this, however, a url that
    has https as its protocol is a requirement from the server. For <span style="background-color: #ff6600;">OAuth 2.0</span>
    based servers, the callback supplied <b>must</b> match one of the ones given at registration time or the initial
    request will be rejected.

    3. Run it once from the command line to see if it works by using the oa4mp-monitor script.
    <br/><br/>
    4. Setup a chron job or use monit or whatever tool you prefer to invoke oa4mp-server at some specific interval,
    e.g. every 5 minutes. The monitor will send an email notification whenever an attempt to contact the server fails.
</p>

<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->
</body>
</html>