<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Using Proxies</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->

</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->

<h2>Introduction</h2>
<p>
   The authorization module for OA4MP can be replaced by various means, such as using Tomcat's built in
    management. However, this means that you will need to have separate logins that you manage for each
    user. Another option is using a <i>proxy</i> service. This is an OIDC service that allows for logins.
    Your OA4MP can simply forward all requests to that service (including the device flow) and use the
    service, allowing your users to effectively log in there. In short, it allows some other service to
    do all your used management.
</p>

<h2>How does this do it?</h2>
<p>
    You need to register a client with the proxy service (henceforth known as <b>the proxy</b>), then enable
    using proxies in your server configuration (see below). Since the service is a client of the proxy,
    you need to enable the callback servlet and register that as the callback.
</p>

<h3>Configuring the server</h3>
<h4>The Tomcat deployment descriptor (web.xml)</h4>
<p>
    There is an included web.xml file, called <b><code>proxy.xml</code></b> that has a complete setup.
    Copy that over your web.xml file. The major point is that it enables the
    callback servlet (with endpoint <b>ready</b>) at
</p>
<pre>/oauth2/ready</pre>
<p>and when you are registering your client with the proxy, you need to set this callback to </p>
<pre>https://host:port/oauth2/ready</pre>
<p>in a standard install. Key points are that https should be available, and that your server
    should be at host:port. The proxy must be able to contact your callback endpoint securely,
    so self-signed certs hould be avoided unless you have a specific agreement with the proxy.</p>

<h4>The server configuration proper</h4>
<p>
    You need to have using the proxy enabled within the <b><code>authorizationServlet</code></b>
    tag and set the configuration file as well as the name of the configuration for the client.
    Remember that this file is the configuration for a complete OAuth 2 client. If you need to,
    read up on the <a href="https://cilogon.github.io/oa4mp/client/configuration/index.html">client configuration</a>
    file syntax. A very typical entry in the server configuration file would be
</p>
<pre>
    &lt;authorizationServlet useProxy="true"
                          cfgFile="/opt/oa4mp/etc/client.xml"
                          cfgName="cilogon-proxy"
                        /&gt;
</pre>

<h2>Using the results</h2>
<p>
    When your service contacts the proxy, a complete exchange is done including getting any
    claims from the proxy. This means that these are available for your service to harvest.
    The system will always set the subject to the subject returned by the proxy. You may
    configure a list of other claims from the proxy to be returned. This is done in the
    <code>proxy_claims_list</code> property of the client. The options there are
</p>
<ul>
    <li>* = (an asterisk) pass along all claims</li>
    <li>[claim0,claim1,...] = list of specific claims. Note that putting * in this list
    will simply return all claims.</li>
</ul>
<p>
    So if the proxy returns the following claims
</p>
<pre>
    {"sub":"user_123",
     "idp":"https:shibboleth.big_state.edu",
     "is_member_of":["admin","all-users","admin-phys"]
    }
</pre>
<p>
    Then at the least the the server returns the "sub" claim. If you set the client's
    proxy_claims_list
    to do so, you may also return the idp or is_member_of claim.  If you set
    the proxy_claims_list to be "*" then all the claims will be passed along.
</p>

<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->
</body>
</html>