<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>OA4MP: MySQL Configuration</title>
</head>
<body  class="composite">
<h2>OA4MP: MySQL Configuration</h2>

<p>Scope: client and server, all versions.</p>
<p>This configures a <a href="http://db.apache.org/derby/">Apache Derby</a> store.
    Derby is a lightweight relational database written in Java. It is quite easy to set up and run and is
    full-featured, with support for standard SQL. It is much less work than one of the big databases (e.g. MySQL)
    to maintain.
</p>
<p>As of version 5.5, OA4MP support Derby in various modes:</p>
<ul>
    <li><b><a href="#standard">standard</a></b> If you have Derby installed and running on your system as you SQL database server, simply
    add an OA4MP database with tables and use that.</li>
    <li><b>file</b> If you want local storage, use this. You may supply a user name and password to lock it down,
    and it will be created and managed by the system. It resides locally. The downside (this is a limitation of
    Derby itself) is that only a single process can access the database at once.</li>
    <li><b>memory</b> This creates the database and it resides wholly in memory. It is again managed by OA4MP.
    This does not persist between server restarts.</li>
</ul>

<h1 id="file">File mode</h1>
<p>In this case, you do not need to have Derby installed at all. OA4MP will handle the details. All
you need to do is set up access to it. If you do not supply credentials, default credentials will
be used. Since there is no external access from outside the system, as long as you have the correct permissions
set for the directory where the file store resides it should be secure.</p>

<table style="text-align: left; width: 100%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Attribute</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required?</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Default</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Description</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>createScript</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>--</td>
        <td>If you do not create this and want the system to do so, then specify the script here that
        contains all of the tables. If you do not specify it, the system will use whatever the current
        release version of this script is automatically (which is included in the OA4MP distro.) This
        must be the full path on your system.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>path</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>--</td>
        <td>The physical path to the database file store. Note that this is the directory where the database resides.
        If you do not specify it explicitly as the database property.  </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>storeType</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>file</td>
        <td>This is required and is what tells OA4MP to use Derby as file store mode. If it is missing,
        the assumption is that it is a standard database. It may also have the value of <i>memory</i>
        for a memory store.</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<h2>Notes</h2>
<ul>
    <li>The <b>database</b> property if present is the full path to the database. If it is missing,
        then it is constructed from the path property as path+"/derby". Note that if this directory
    exists, it is assumed that the database has been created and resides there. If you want the system
    to create the database, be sure that directory does not exist.</li>
    <li>The path property is not optional. Generally it is suggested to be the parent directory
    of the database (and will be if you do not specify the database property).</li>
    <li>The create script is simply what you would type at the command line.
    A very simple-minded parser is invoked that breaks it up into commands and issues
    those sequentially. If you have a sophisticated script for creation, you should
    probably just create the database (same steps for a standard database, see below)
    and just use that.</li>
</ul>

<h3>Example setting the username, password and boot password. Note that since this is a database,
the standard parameters such as schema are still supported.</h3>
<pre>
&lt;derby username=&quot;oa4mp&quot;
       password=&quot;6eXSbO_W&quot;
       bootPassword=&quot;o7MtXykd&quot;
       storeType=&quot;file&quot;
       path=&quot;/opt/oa4mp/test&quot;
       schema=&quot;oauth2&quot;&gt;
    &lt;!-- all the stores --&gt;
&lt;derby/&gt;
</pre>

<h3>Most minimal configuration</h3>
<pre>
    &lt;derby storeType="file"
           path="/opt/oa4mp"
           &gt;
    &lt;!-- all the stores --&gt;
    &lt;/derby&gt;
</pre>
<p>This creates a file store which resides at "/opt/oa4mp/derby".</p>

<h1 id="memory">Memory Mode</h1>
<p>In this mode, the database is created and resides wholly in memory. It is not
persistent between server restarts. </p>
<table style="text-align: left; width: 100%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Attribute</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required?</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Default</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Description</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>createScript</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>--</td>
        <td>If you do not create this and want the system to do so, then specify the script here that
        contains all of the tables. If you do not specify it, the system will use whatever the current
        release version of this script is automatically (which is included in the OA4MP distro.) This
        must be the full path on your system.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>storeType</td>
        <td>Y</td>
        <td>memory</td>
        <td>This is required and is what tells OA4MP to use Derby in memory store mode. If it is missing,
        the assumption is that it is a standard database.</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<h2>Notes</h2>
<ul>
    <li>The <b>database</b> property is the name of the database. This is not a path. If it is
    not supplied, the name "derby" is used.</li>
</ul>
<h3>Minimal example</h3>
<pre>
    &lt;derby storeType="memory"&gt;
    &lt;!-- all the stores --&gt;
    &lt;/derby&gt;
</pre>
<h3>A more elaborate example</h3>
<pre>
    &lt;derby storeType="memory"
           database="oa4mp"
           createScript="/opt/oa4mp/etc/oa4mp-derby.sql"
           schema="oauth2"&gt;
        &lt;!-- all the stores --&gt;
    &lt;/derby&gt;
</pre>
<p>In this case, a database named oa4mp is created from a custom script. The schema is
specified (which is used in the script.</p>

<h1 id="standard">Standard mode</h1>
<p>
    Generally the schema, tablename and such use the default. Any option prefixed with a * in the table will
    have its default used. Note that there may be many  stores for a configuration if each of them, <i>e.g.</i>
    requires different connection information.</p>
<table style="text-align: left; width: 100%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Attribute</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required?</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Default</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Description</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">username</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N/A</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The name of the user to use</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">password</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N/A</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The password for the user</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">bootPassword</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N/A</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The password to unlock the database.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">driver</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">current</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The JDBC driver</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">database</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N/A</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The path to the database.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">schema</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The schema for the database</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
           <td style="vertical-align: top;">parameters</td>
           <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
           <td style="vertical-align: top;">(none)</td>
           <td style="vertical-align: top;">An optional extra set of parameters to pass to the JDBC driver. This is of the form
               key0=value0&amp;key1=value1&amp;key2=value2... Note that each key/value pair is separated with an ampersand.
               Note that OA4MP does all connections using UTF8 so that parameter is always added.
           </td>
       </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<p><br/> The content of the store is specified in one of the content tags.</p>

<p>If you are installing Derby, you need to get the tools from their website (unless you
have some form of package manager) and install that. There are
<a href="https://github.com/ncsa/oa4mp/releases/download/6.0/oa4mp-derby.sql">install
    instructions</a> for settig up your system. </p>
<h2>Setting up a Derby database</h2>
<p>
    This comment section tells how to set up an Apache Derby database to
    work with OA4MP.
</p>
<p>
     Create the directory to where you want derby to create the database.
     This directory should be empty, since Derby will create everything on your
     behalf -- and might refuse to do anything if the directory has content.
     Make the following substitutions below:
 </p>
<table style="text-align: left; width: 100%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Attribute</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Description</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">DB_NAME</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">the entire path to this database</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">DB_PASSWORD</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">password to the database</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">USER_NAME</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">name of the user (created below)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">USER_PASSWORD</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">password for user</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">SCHEMA</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">schema for the database</td>
    </tr>

    </tbody>
</table>
     <h3>Note 1</h3>
<p>   If you want your database to live in</p>
<pre>
         /opt/oauth2/var/derby/oa4mp
</pre>
<p>you would create</p>
<pre>
    /opt/oauth2/var/derby
</pre>

<p>with nothing in it and the DB_NAME is then</p>
<pre>
    /opt/oauth2/var/derby/oa4mp
</pre>
<p>I.e., the last directory in this path is what Derby creates.</p>
<h3>Note 2</h3>
<p>
     In Derby, the database lives in a directory. This means that unless
     certain precautions are taken, it is completely insecure. The setup below
     mitigates this.
</p>
<ol>
    <li>Puts a password on the entire database so it cannot be read from the disk</li>
    <li>Sets a user and password to access the database. These are stored in the database,
        hence step 1 to lock the whole thing down.</li>
    <li>All database access from OA4MP is via the so-called embedded driver, so
        no network traffic is needed.</li>
</ol>

<h2>One-time install instructions</h2>
<p>
    Install derby, probably with a package manager like synaptic or yum. <br/><br/>
    Start derby with
</p>
<pre>
  ij
</pre>
<p>
     Then issue the following commands. This sets up the database and will create the user above
     (Note that the user name and password are set as Java properties, so do substitute).
     When he datqbase is shut down, these values are stored for subsequent usage and you
     then put them in the JDBC connection string.
     Even though the user does not exist yet, you must  connect with the
     user name so that they are the owner of the database.
</p>
<pre>
  connect 'jdbc:derby:DB_NAME;create=true;dataEncryption=true;bootPassword=DB_PASSWORD;user=USER_NAME';
  call syscs_util.syscs_set_database_property('derby.connection.requireAuthentication', 'true');
  call syscs_util.syscs_set_database_property('derby.authentication.provider', 'BUILTIN');
  call syscs_util.syscs_set_database_property('derby.user.USER_NAME', 'USER_PASSWORD');
  call syscs_util.syscs_set_database_property('derby.database.propertiesOnly', 'true');
  call syscs_util.syscs_set_database_property('derby.database.sqlAuthorization', 'true');
</pre>

<h3>Optional test</h3>
<p>If you want be sure it works, create the schema as follows:</p>
<pre>
  create schema oauth2;
  show schemas;
</pre>

<p>     And a bunch of schemas will be displayed, including oauth2. This means everything
     worked. You don't need to issue the create schema command below.
</p>
<p>
     At this point, exit Derby normally. Initial setup is done. You must connect again as the user
     that runs this because creating the tables below will automatically assign the
     current user as the table owner, so no other permissions (which can get complicated)
     are needed.
</p>
<pre>
  exit;
</pre>
     <p>Now connect to it with the following from the command line after restarting ij:</p>

<pre>
  connect 'jdbc:derby:DB_NAME;user=USER_NAME;password=USER_PASSWORD;bootPassword=DB_PASSWORD';
</pre>
     <p>and either paste in the rest of this file OR just run the whole thing from inside ij</p>

<pre>
    run '/full/path/to/oa4mp-derby.qdl';
</pre>
<p>At this point, your database is ready for use.</p>

<h2>Example</h2>
<p>
    Let us say that you set up your Derby database with the following information

</p>
<table style="text-align: left; width: 100%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Attribute</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Description</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">DB_NAME</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">/opt/oa2/var/storage/my_db</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">DB_PASSWORD</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">mairzy_doats</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">USER_NAME</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">oa4mp</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">USER_PASSWORD</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">dozey_doats</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">SCHEMA</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">oauth2</td>
    </tr>

    </tbody>
</table>

<p>
    Then the configuration of the derby element for all stores would be
</p>
<pre>
    &lt;derby username="oa4mp"
           password="dozey_doats"
           bootPassword="mairzy_doats"
           database="opt/oa2/var/storage/my_db"
           schema="oauth2"&gt;
        &lt;transactions/&gt;
        &lt;clients/&gt;
        &lt;clientApprovals/&gt;
        &lt;permissions/&gt;
        &lt;adminClients/&gt;
        &lt;txStore/&gt;
        &lt;voStore/&gt;
    &lt;/derby&gt;
</pre>


</body>
</html>