<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Replacing the authorization servlet</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->
</head>

<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->
<h2>Replacing the authorization servlet</h2>

<p>It is also possible to replace the authorization servlet in any version of OA4MP with a customized version.
    You may then, for instance, use LDAP or Shibboleth for authentication. The protocols require that your
    module occupy the authorize endpoint. The assumptions then are that</p>
<ul>
    <li>Your module will handle the authentication.</li>
    <li>After a successful authentication, your module will make a callout to another, private endpoint.</li>
    <li>This private endpoint is tasked to set up all the state and check that the request
        is valid. Skipping
        a call to this module means there will be no state for this request and all subsequent attempts to use the
        service will be rejected.
    </li>
    <li>This private endpoint is either protected at the network level (access via Apache) or with a security constraint
        in Tomcat (Tomcat only servers).
    </li>
    <li>Your call to this will follow a mini-protocol, then process the response. Each version of OA4MP has its own
        details on this.
    </li>
</ul>

<h3>Having Tomcat handle security.</h3>

<p>If you have a Tomcat only service, then you must protect this endpoint. A typical security security constraint is the
    following,
    which should be added to the deployment descriptor (web.xml file)</p>
<pre>
    &lt;security-constraint&gt;
           &lt;web-resource-collection&gt;
               &lt;web-resource-name&gt;Lockdown_initiate_endpoint&lt;/web-resource-name&gt;
               &lt;url-pattern&gt;/authorized&lt;/url-pattern&gt;
               &lt;http-method&gt;GET&lt;/http-method&gt;
               &lt;http-method&gt;POST&lt;/http-method&gt;
               &lt;http-method&gt;PUT&lt;/http-method&gt;
               &lt;http-method&gt;DELETE&lt;/http-method&gt;
           &lt;/web-resource-collection&gt;
           &lt;auth-constraint/&gt;
       &lt;/security-constraint&gt;
</pre>
<p>
    which will prevent all access to the authorized endpoint except from Tomcat itself. If you access the service from
    Apache,
    you will have to limit access to this endpoint at the server level to calls from localhost only. The authorized
    servlet
    comes with this security constraint enabled by default since it is better to have the authentication fail if there
    is
    any question about the setup.
</p>


<h2>Accessing the Authorized Servlet for OA4MP</h2>

<h3>Initial setup</h3>

<p>The servlet used in this case is named
    OA2AuthorizedServlet. So a typical entry would look like</p>
<pre>
  &lt;servlet&gt;
      &lt;servlet-name&gt;authorized&lt;/servlet-name&gt;
      &lt;servlet-class&gt;org.oa4mp.server.proxy.OA2AuthorizationServer&lt;/servlet-class&gt;
  &lt;/servlet&gt;
  &lt;servlet-mapping&gt;
      &lt;servlet-name&gt;authorized&lt;/servlet-name&gt;
      &lt;url-pattern&gt;/authorized&lt;/url-pattern&gt;
  &lt;/servlet-mapping&gt;
</pre>
<p>Note that the name of this servlet may be altered without changing the protocol. Some installation prefer to call it
    <code>/init</code> since authorize and authorize<b>d</b> are very similar.</p>

<h3>The mini-protocol</h3>

<p>The very first step in the OAuth 2.0 protocol is that the user goes to the authorize endpoint which will then simply
    call the end authorized endpoint by passing along verbatim the original request
    your authorization module received. For instance, if your server got the following request</p>
<pre>
https://your.server.edu/oauth2/authorize?state=s0jByyFvSNeoDUZ1GbyRy&amp;nonce=ABC75344A&amp;...
</pre>
<p>You do the authorization and once completed successfully, you call the authorized servlet:</p>
<pre>
https://localhost/oauth2/authorized?state=s0jByyFvSNeoDUZ1GbyRy&amp;nonce=ABC75344A&amp;...
</pre>
<p>All state and error checking will be done for you.
    You will simply receive the standard response (with HTML status code of 200, since 302 is reserved for error
    conditions -- see
    below for more) in JSON of the token and the state (if
    that was passed in the initial request) -- simply pass this response back to the client in the standard OIDC redirect. For instance</p>
<pre>
    {"code":"urn:oauth2:aMQ53UmEtb5cM6WF/ps7wOmYQoJTTKAW9","state":"s0jByyFvSNeoDUZ1GbyRy"}
</pre>
<h3>Errors</h3>

<p>The authorized servlet supports all of the same error codes as the standard OAuth 2.0/OIDC specification. This means
    that there
    will be an HTML status code of 302 (a redirect) to the callback url that the client supplied (in the request and at
    registration).
    This may again be passed along directly
    to the client which is required to process it. For example, if the above request were invalid and had
    consequently, failed then if the base url of the error
    is <code>https://your.client.org/cb</code> your authorize module would get the following redirect, as per the
    OA4MP/OIDC spec:</p>
<pre>
    Location: https://your.client.org/cb?
      error=invalid_request
      &amp;error_description=
        the%20request%20is%20not%20valid%20or%20malformed
      &amp;state=s0jByyFvSNeoDUZ1GbyRy
</pre>
<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->
</body>
</html>