<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Using Demo Mode</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->

</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->

<h2>Introduction</h2>
<p>
    The intent with demo mode is to set up OA4MP with a minimal but usable system for evaluation.
    This is done by setting the service tag attribute of <b><code>demoModeEnabled</code></b> to <code>true</code>.
    You will need to make sure that Tomcat is set up correctly for this.
</p>

<h2>What does this do?</h2>
<p>
    Normally OA4MP needs to have some authorization mechanism, such as replacing the authorize
    endpoint completely (e.g. CILogon) or perhaps enabling Tomcat's native logins to operate.
    Many organizations as of this writing have been using X509 certificates for years and are
    interesting in migrating to JWT signed tokens, which OA4MP handles with aplomb. But
    this is potentially a very large structural change to an organization and needs to be evaluated and
    tested.
</p>
<p>
    The problem for a quick demo then is finding all the users (and there may be many, many in an organization)
    that want to test this. Signing them up may be a daunting task. Enabling demo mode, however, allows an admin
    to set policies for the tokens and lets users use both authorization code flow and device code flow. The user
    will be prompted for user name and password, but the password is ignored and the entire purpose of the username is
    to set the subject for any tokens issued.
</p>

<p>
    The effect of configuring this (as per below) will be that the standard authorization code flow
    works as expected, and the device code flow will too <i>except</i> that the user must go to the
    webpage and type in the user code (rather than use the link that has it embedded.)
</p>
<p>
    Again it should be stressed that this demo mode is not for production, but mostly to let administrators easily set up
    a system and have many testers use the system to see how information flows in it. For production, options are then
    to either enable Tomcat's authorization or simply replace OA4MP's entire authorization module either with your own
    or with the CILogon proxy.
</p>

<h3>Tomcat configuration</h3>
<p>Tomcat is configured as if this were a standalone OA4MP install but without configuring the
    <a href="../manuals/remote-user.html">remote user</a> machinery. You need to comment out any
    password protection for the web pages and instead simply require transport of SSL as follows
</p>
<pre>

    &lt;security-constraint&gt;
        &lt;web-resource-collection&gt;
            &lt;web-resource-name&gt;portalSecurity&lt;/web-resource-name&gt;
            &lt;url-pattern&gt;/*&lt;/url-pattern&gt;
            &lt;http-method&gt;GET&lt;/http-method&gt;
            &lt;http-method&gt;POST&lt;/http-method&gt;
        &lt;/web-resource-collection&gt;
        &lt;user-data-constraint&gt;
            &lt;transport-guarantee&gt;CONFIDENTIAL&lt;/transport-guarantee&gt;
        &lt;/user-data-constraint&gt;
    &lt;/security-constraint&gt;
</pre>

<h3>Server configuration</h3>
<p>The <code><b>demoModeEnabled</b></code> attribute in the server tag must be set to <code>true</code>.</p>


<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->
</body>
</html>