<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Simple driver configurations</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->

</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->
<h1>What is it?</h1>
<p>One request is to allow for a single QDL script to be used in place of all
token configurations. </p>
<h2>How's it work?</h2>
<p>Rather than have the cfg attribute of a client configuration be something like
this (in HOCON/JSON):</p>
<pre>
    tokens{
     identity{
        type=identity
        qdl{
            load="bgsu/idtoken.qdl"
            xmd={exec_phase="post_token"}
          }// end qdl
        } //end identity token
        access{
           type=wlcg
           issuer="https:cilogon.org"
           audience="https://bgsu.edu/jwt/v1/any"
           lifetime=3600000
           qdl{
              load="bgsu/at.qdl"
              xmd={exec_phase=["post_token","post_refresh","post_exchange"]}
              args=["USER_ID", "PASSWORD"]
           } //end QDL
        } // end access token
       refresh{
         issuer="https:cilogon.org"
         audience="https://bgsu.edu/jwt/v1/any"
         lifetime=3600000000
          qdl{
             load="bgsu/rt.qdl"
             xmd={exec_phase=["post_token","post_refresh","post_exchange"]}
          } //end QDL
      }// end refresh
    } //end tokens
</pre>
<p>You could have a <i>driver script</i> that is loaded for all phases and allow the script to dispatch
the execution. The plus with this is, obviously, you manage the script and once set the client
configuration never need be touched. The most important point is that the client cfg then is a
single QDL invocation element:</p>
<pre>
    qdl{
        load="bgsu/driver.qdl"
        xmd={exec_phase="post_all"}
      }// end qdl
</pre>
<p>In this case, the driver script might start like</p>
<pre>
    if[
      exec_phase=='post_auth'
    ][
      script_load('bgsu/idtoken.qdl');
    ];
    if[
      exec_phase == 'post_token'
    ][
    // ... etc.
    ];
</pre>
<p>
    What this does under the hood is create a handler (id token, access and refresh with
    gerenic defaults) and sets the script to the single driver.
</p>
<h2>Caveats</h2>
<p>Each invocation of QDL requires marshalling resource, starting an interpreter etc.,
so while you may certainly request that the exec_phase be "all", there is apt to be
an awful lot of extra work done</p>
<p>
    In the driver, load scripts do not run them, since the ambient scope contains all
    access tokens, claims etc. and script_run creates a new clean scope with none of that.
</p>
<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->
</body>
</html>