<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Service Clients (RFC7523)</title>
</head>
<body class="composite">
<h1>What is a service client?</h1>
<p>A <i>service client</i> is a specialized OA4MP client that complies with
<a href="https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7523#section-2.1">section 2.1 of
RFC7523</a>. This means that it is allowed to directly issue a token request without authentication.
<b><i>However</i></b>, this implies a trust relationship and requires vetting.
</p>
<h2>Why?</h2>
<p>As computing switches to token-based trust models and leaves behind X.509 certificates,
services still need to be able to identify themselves and there need to be trust relationships
in effect. Before, a server would have an X.509 certificate to prove who or what it was and now
it needs a signed token. Requiring a service (and its human administrator) to go through an OAuth
flow every time, say, a server restarts,
is an intolerable burden on a system. Therefore, the trust is agreed upon separately with
a service client. Typically, a service client has a single user and restricts which users
can be recognized. Public/private keys must be generated and all authentication is
key-based. Once all is in place, the service simply issues a grant request (which is in JSON and
also signed with the private key) to the
token endpoint, signed with its keys, and gets tokens back.</p>

<h1>Authentication generally</h1>
<p>As per the spec., <a href="https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7523#section-2.2">section 2.2</a>,
a service client must use client authentication. This is in addition to it signing its grant request.
</p>
<h1>The JSON request</h1>
<p>This request replaces the authorization grant request from OAuth.
<a href="https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7523#section-2.1">Section 2.1 of
    RFC7523</a> lists the requirements. Note that the subject is effectively the
    username. The list of allowed users may be restricted by setting it in the server's client
    configuration. In addition, you may include the following parameters:</p>
<table style="text-align: left; width: 100%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Attribute</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required?</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Default</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Description</td>
    </tr>
    <tr id="at_lifetime">
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">at_lifetime</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">--</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Request time for the access token to be valid. Note this is subject to
            server restrictions. See note below about times.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr id="audience">
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">audience</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">--</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">A single string  or multiple values. These are compliant with RFC 8693 (token exchange).</td>
    </tr>
    <tr id="extended_attributes">
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">extended attributes</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">--</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Any OA4MP <a href="extended-attributes.html">extended attributes</a>.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr id="resource">
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">resource</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">--</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">A single URI  or multiple values. These are compliant with RFC 8693 (token exchange).</td>
    </tr>
    <tr id="rt_lifetime">
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">rt_lifetime</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">--</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Request time for the refresh token to be valid. Note this is subject to
            server restrictions. See note below about times.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr id="scope">
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">scope</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">--</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">A single scope or array of scopes.</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<h2>About times</h2>
<p>Note that the assumption is that all of these <i>without</i>
units are in <b>seconds</b>. Blanks before and after units are allowed. Acceptable units are</p>
<ul>
    <li>"ms.", "ms" for milliseconds, e.g. "1000 ms."</li>
    <li>"sec.", "sec", "s.", "s" for seconds, e.g., "300 sec"</li>
    <li>"min.", "min", "mins.", "mins" for minutes, e.g. "20 min."</li>
    <li>"hr.", "hr", "hrs.", "hrs" for hours, "e.g. 2 hrs."</li>
    <li>"day", "days" for days, e.g. "1 day", "10 days"</li>
</ul>
<h2>Example</h2>
<p>A typical JSON request would be</p>
<pre>
    {
      "iss": "ashigaru:command.line2",
      "sub": "jeff",
      "jti": "ashigaru:command.line2:/rfc7523/GmGUmD4J0JZH1oAkqNgkeTpWpqklq2HCJi38SuUNV-U",
      "exp": 1686595091,
      "iat": 1686594191,
      "scope":   [
        "org.cilogon.userinfo",
        "openid",
        "profile",
        "email"
      ],
      "oa4mp:/roles": "admin,all-user",
      "oa4mp:/tokens/access/lifetime": 1000000,
      "redirect_uri": "https://oauth.bigstate.edu/client2/ready",
      "nonce": "1yv5JQ5sElsxDHTcObWhJGBp6uy0i4VwMgV4vCHou1I"
    }
</pre>
<p>Note that this would be turned into the payload of a JWT and signed with the client's private
key before being sent to the server.</p>
</body>
</html>