<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>The Token Information Endpoint</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->
</head>

<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->

<h1>The Token Information Endpoint</h1>
<p>
    Token management is a necessity. OA4MP allows for an admin to query
    what tokens are currently in use by a user. This is done at the token
    endpoint by using a specific grant and the response includes all
    outstanding tokens of this user for every client that the
    admin administers.

</p>
<h2>The Request</h2>
<p> An admin client makes a request to the
    authorization server's token endpoint using the extension grant type
    mechanism defined in Section 4.5 of <a href="https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749#section-4.5">RFC 6749</a>.

    <br/>Client authentication server is done using basic authorization.
    The request is made using either HTTP GET (preferred on philosophical
    grounds) or HTTP POST. The parameters are
</p>
<ul>
    <li><b>grant_type</b> (Required) must be urn:oa4mp:params:oauth:grant-type:token-info</li>
    <li><b>access_token</b> OR <b>refresh_token</b> (Required) and the value is resp. any (valid) access token
        or refresh token.
    </li>
</ul>
<h2>The Response</h2>
<p>
    If the request is valid and meets all policy and other criteria of
    the authorization server, the successful token response has character
    set of "UTF-8", a media type of "application/json" and an HTTP 200
    status code.
</p>

<ul>
    <li><b>user_uid</b> the unique id of the user</li>
    <li><b>clients</b> a JSON array of</li>
</ul>

<p>The structure of the clients array is best described as follows.</p>
<pre>
    {"clients":[CLIENT+],
     "user_uid":USER_ID}

    CLIENT:
    {"client_id":CLIENT_ID,
     "transactions" : [TRANSACTION+]}

    TRANSACTION:
     {"code": AUTH_GRANT,
      "tokens":[{"access_token"|"refresh_token":TOKEN}+]

    TOKEN:
    {"is_valid":BOOLEAN,
    "lifetime":LONG,
    "issued_at":LONG,
    "jti":TOKEN_ID,
    "token":JWT
    }

     USER_UID: String
    CLIENT_ID: String
   AUTH_GRANT: String
     TOKEN_ID: String
          JWT: JSON Web Token

</pre>
<h3>Response example</h3>
<pre>
    HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    Content-Type: application/json
    Cache-Control: no-cache, no-store

    {
      "clients": [
        {
          "transactions": [
            {
              "code": "https://localhost:9443/oauth2/262005d0f72e0803828c0a098e87d1b1?type=authzGrant&amp;ts=1654791488268&amp;version=v2.0&amp;lifetime=750000",
              "tokens": [
                {
                  "access_token": {
                    "is_valid": true,
                    "lifetime": 300000,
                    "issued_at": 1654791499644,
                    "jti": "https://localhost:9443/oauth2/468cfbff8cbe412393dd34d62ca2dc28?type=accessToken&amp;ts=1654791499644&amp;version=v2.0&amp;lifetime=300000",
                    "token": "eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJraWQiOiIyOTc4RkY1NDhBNTVBNzM5NTAyRTNCQzY0QTU4RTJCMiIsImFsZyI6IlJTMjU2In0.eyJ3bGNnLnZlciI6IjEuMCIsImF1ZCI6Imh0dHBzOi8vbG9jYWxob3N0L2Zlcm1pbGFiIiwibXlfYXRfY2xhaW0iOiJteV9hdF9jbGFpbSIsIm5iZiI6MTY1NDc5MTQ4NywiaXNzIjoiaHR0cDovL2xvY2FsaG9zdDo5NDQzL2N1c3RvbS9pc3N1ZXIiLCJleHAiOjE2NTQ3OTE3OTIsImlhdCI6MTY1NDc5MTQ5MiwianRpIjoiaHR0cHM6Ly9sb2NhbGhvc3Q6OTQ0My9vYXV0aDIvNDY4Y2ZiZmY4Y2JlNDEyMzkzZGQzNGQ2MmNhMmRjMjg_dHlwZT1hY2Nlc3NUb2tlbiZ0cz0xNjU0NzkxNDk5NjQ0JnZlcnNpb249djIuMCZsaWZldGltZT0zMDAwMDAiLCJzY29wZSI6InJlYWQ6L2hvbWUvaHR0cDovL2NpbG9nb24ub3JnL3NlcnZlclQvdXNlcnMvMjEzNDAzNjMgd3JpdGU6L2RhdGEvaHR0cDovL2NpbG9nb24ub3JnL3NlcnZlclQvdXNlcnMvMjEzNDAzNjMvY2x1c3RlciB4Lnk6L2FiYy9kZWYiLCJzdWIiOiJodHRwOi8vY2lsb2dvbi5vcmcvc2VydmVyVC91c2Vycy8yMTM0MDM2MyJ9.j9wK9EkNy19oKNKPqP0uGxuFB7il4Ddoq2gWlrt1Mk_oISDMOnVnzGn35HjGP2XuNDIjrVIRE3D5JyylEw_CL19_sXlNqEmNnyCq4Um4fuGZ5d0evpA0n_G2v8U59fEZf98I1WJ0KsMB2L5SJOXJzMce9Pvt5DC56He8GruFt3IkSEq6d1J1kwCGymyul_izmXUlQ5XMs2r5EeinERElkmPaB2jsj56H5TLrbet_7Z8nk5Ds3DGT59OtfhRGc_HRaRGG6x2J0imHgn4JvyPPgR80nX3yoGmmw5gU3HvEbrqG39XjFzSwnWqQv-XiaRZspjzy5Ns7_-v5oeczXZYAsA"
                  },
                  "refresh_token": {
                    "is_valid": true,
                    "lifetime": 900000,
                    "issued_at": 1654791499644,
                    "jti": "https://localhost:9443/oauth2/5040b30aaa66b0889284738917de4ae?type=refreshToken&amp;ts=1654791499644&amp;version=v2.0&amp;lifetime=900000",
                    "token": "eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJub25lIn0.eyJhdWQiOiJodHRwczovL2xvY2FsaG9zdC90ZXN0IiwibmJmIjoxNjU0NzkxNDg3LCJteV9ydF9jbGFpbSI6Im15X3J0X2NsYWltIiwiZXhwIjoxNjU0NzkyMzkyLCJpYXQiOjE2NTQ3OTE0OTIsImp0aSI6Imh0dHBzOi8vbG9jYWxob3N0Ojk0NDMvb2F1dGgyLzUwNDBiMzBhYWE2NmIwODg5Mjg0NzM4OTE3ZGU0YWU_dHlwZT1yZWZyZXNoVG9rZW4mdHM9MTY1NDc5MTQ5OTY0NCZ2ZXJzaW9uPXYyLjAmbGlmZXRpbWU9OTAwMDAwIn0."
                  }
                }
              ]
            },
    "user_uid": "http://cilogon.org/serverT/users/21340363"
    }
</pre>
<h3>Caveat</h3>
<p>If the user has been extremely active and has a lot of tokens, this may be a truly massive
    listing. It is best assume that and pipe it someplace safe. It is also possible to get missing tokens.
    This means that the user started a flow and either has abandoned it, or not come back yet to
    finish it.</p>

<h2>Listing other clients</h2>
<p>
    Admin clients <i>may</i> be allowed to list the user in other clients, meaning, if they
    have been granted the privilege, this call will return every token for this user
    regardless of which clients the user has used. Default is to restrict tokens to those
    clients that the admin owns.
</p>

<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->
</body>
</html>