<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Command line tools</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->

</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->
<h1>Command line tools for OA4MP</h1>

These are a set of programs that are accessible from a CLI
(command line interface)  allow
an administrator to do CRUD (Create, Read, Update and Delete) operations on client
records and approvals. There is also the option to copy a store completely from one
store to another.

<h2>Getting the tools</h2>
<h5>OAuth 1.0a</h5>
The latest version of the Oauth 1.0a command line tool is available at
<a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/oa4mp-cli.jar">oa4mp-cli.jar</a>
You should also get the script that runs this too,
<a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/oa4mp-cli">oa4mp-cli</a>

<h5>Oauth 2.0</h5>
The latest version of the Oauth 2.0 command line tool is available at
<a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/oa2-cli.jar">oa2-cli.jar</a>
You should also get the script that runs this too,
<a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/oa2-cli">oa2-cli</a>

<h2>Configuration</h2>
The tool uses a standard configuration file exactly like the server. Indeed, you can just
point the tool at the server configuration file. You will need to supply the name of
the configuration in the file you want to use. Aliases can be quite handy here. Given the abilities of
the CLI to do quick copies of the store, it pays to have a backup (file) store configured and
occasionally simple copy the active store to that. There are many possible uses. It is assumed that
the tools are installed in a location called $OA4MP_HOME. Normally the default for this is
<br/><br/>
OAuth 1.0a: OA4MP_HOME=/opt/oa4mp
<br/><br/>
OAuth 2.0: OA4MP_HOME=opt/oa2

<b>Note that we will be discussing the OA4MP tools rather than the OA2 tools in what follows.
    Everything here works the same if you replace oa4mp-* by oa2-*</b
        >
<p>The assumption of the script is that files are in the following directory structure</p>
<ul>
    <li><code>$OA4MP_HOME/etc/admin-cfg.xml</code> - the configuration file</li>
    <li><code>$OA4MP_HOME/lib/oa4mp-cli.jar</code> - the jar containing the CLI</li>
    <li><code>$OA4MP_HOME/bin/oa4mp-cli</code> - the script for running this. Be sure it is set to be executable.</li>
</ul>
The default name of the configuration is assumed to be "default" (no quotes). If you invoke the script with
no arguments it will use this and the above configuration file.

<h2>Running the CLI</h2>
Invocation from the command line is usually done with the supplied shell script, oa4mp-cli. The
invocation syntax is <br/>

<pre>oa4mp-cli [configName configFile]</pre>

You should run this as root and might need to set the script to be
executable if it is not. If you give neither arguments then defaults are used. Invoke with the argument  "--help"
for more information. If you give one argument it is assumed to be the configuration name
in the default configuration file.
<h2>Command line options for the jar.</h2>
You should run this from the script, but if you want or need to specify
invoke the jar directly, the invocation options they are listed here.
<table style="text-align: left; width: 1157px; height: 165px;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Argument</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Value required?</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required?</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Description</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">-cfg</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The full path to the configuration file.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">-name</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">F</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">F</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The name of the configuration within the file. If there is a single configuration
            in the file, then no name is needed. If there are multiple configurations you must specify which one to use. </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">-log</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">F</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">F</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The full path log file. If this is not specified then a file named "log.xml"
        is dumped into the invocation directory.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">-use</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">F</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">F</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Specify the component to use. Rather than loading the whole CLI then <b>use</b>-ing
        a components (such as clients) you may simply specify that here.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">-v</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">F</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">F</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">No argument. Turns on verbose logging so that much more information is dumped
        onto the console. This is useful for debugging or just if you want to see what it is up to.</td>
    </tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<pre>
    java -jar oa4mp-cli.jar -cfg /path/to/cfg.xml -name myConfig -log /path/to/mylog.xml -use approvals
</pre>
This would load the configuration named "myConfig" from the given file, write the log to a file called
"mylog.xml" and bring up the approvals component.

<h2>Running the tool</h2>
The CLI consists of utilities for each component that can be used. Once invoked you will see
the startup banner and prompt:
<pre>
[mybox bin]# ./oa4mp-cli
**********************************************************
* OA4MP CLI (Command Line Interpreter)                   *
* Version 3.4-SNAPSHOT                                   *
* By Jeff Gaynor  NCSA                                   *
*  (National Center for Supercomputing Applications)     *
*                                                        *
* type 'help' for a list of commands                     *
*      'exit' or 'quit' to end this session.             *
**********************************************************
oa4mp >
</pre>
If you type "help" You will get
<pre>
oa4mp >help

Here are the commands available:
use
load
To get more information on a command type

command --help
</pre>
Basic supported commands are
<ul>
  <li>use - specify a component to use.</li>
    <li>load configName [configFile] - load the given named configuration from the current config file. Specify the config file
    if you need a different one. </li>
</ul>

To see the help for, say, the use command you would issue
<pre>
 oa4mp> use --help

 Choose the component you wish to use.
 you specify the component as use + name. Supported components are
 clients - edit client records
 approvals - edit client approval records
 copy - copy an entire store.

 e.g.

 use clients

 will call up the client management component.
 Type 'exit' when you wish to exit the component and return to the main menu
</pre>

Each of these components; <a href="server/manuals/cli.xhtml#clients">clients</a>,
<a href="server/manuals/cli.xhtml#approvals">approvals</a>
and <a href="server/manuals/cli.xhtml#copy">copy</a> is described in detail below. But first, a few preliminary notions.

<h2>Index vs. Unique ID</h2>
Since most objects have unique identifiers, you can specify these are arguments at any time it makes
sense to do so by prefixing the id with a forward slash, "/". If there is a list of objects, you can also specify
the index on the list as the target of the operation. Most components have a command to list everything in the
active component (the <b>ls</b> command).
<p>
After you issue an <code>ls</code> (no arguments) you will
see a complete list of items in the store. These are numbered on the right hand side. This is the
item's <b>index</b>. You may then specify the index directly. E.g. to print out a long version of the item
with index 4 issue<br/><br/>
<code>ls 4</code>
<br/><br/>
Typically you will know the unique identifier for an item and you can enter this if you escape it with a forward
slash (/). To give the long listing of an object with unique identifier <code>myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/a4b78549990</code>
you would issue<br/><br/>
<code>ls /myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/a4b78549990</code>
<br/><br/>
Note that since there is no canonical ordering of objects in a store, you should always issue an
<code>ls</code> before using the index. It is generally always safer to use the unique identifier.

</p>
<h3>Options supported in each storage tool.</h3>
<ul>
    <li><a href="server/manuals/cli.xhtml#size">size</a> - number of entries in the current component.</li>
    <li><a href="server/manuals/cli.xhtml#ls">ls [index | /uniqueId]</a> - list all items or the details of a given item</li>
    <li><a href="server/manuals/cli.xhtml#update">update [index | /uniqueId]</a> - edit the item</li>
    <li><a href="server/manuals/cli.xhtml#rm">rm [index | /uniqueId]</a> - remove an entry</li>
    <li><a href="server/manuals/cli.xhtml#create">create [uniqueId]</a> - create a new entry with the optional id.</li>
</ul>
Each of these in turn will be discussed in detail.

<h1>Common commands for all storage components.</h1>
<h4><a name="size">Getting The Number Of Objects In a Component.</a></h4>
This will print the number of elements in the current storage component. <br/>
<i>Example.</i> For showing the number of clients in a store
you would have something like the following
<pre>
oa4mp >use clients
  clients >size
    Current store has 22 entries
  clients >exit
exiting ...
oa4mp >
</pre>

<h4><a name="ls">Listing Object or Details of an Object.</a></h4>
This lists every element in the current component. The default is to sort by
the given identifier. Clients are sorted by creation date. At this point,
sorting behavior cannot be changed. Each record is recorded on a single line.
No argument prints out everything in the store.
Giving the optional index or unique identifier will
print a detailed listing of the object.<br/>
<i>Example.</i> Listing a specific object by unique identifier
<pre>
oa4mp >use approvals
  approvals >ls
  0. ClientApproval[approved=true, approver=null, id=myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/468afcd5f598227e1a0b79e6e94b3506, on Mon Apr 01 11:37:58 CDT 2013]
  1. ClientApproval[approved=true, approver=auto-approver, id=myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/1e4310262889ebdf72b8a7b148acdf2a, on Mon Jul 09 16:21:47 CDT 2012]
  approvals >
</pre>
and now print out the details on number 1:
<pre>
  approvals >ls 1

Approver:auto-approver
  Identifier:myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/1e4310262889ebdf72b8a7b148acdf2a
  Approved at:Mon Jul 09 16:21:47 CDT 2012
  Is approved? true
  approvals >
</pre>
We could have done the exact same thing by simply using the unique identifier:
<pre>
    approvals>ls /myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/1e4310262889ebdf72b8a7b148acdf2a

Approver:auto-approver
  Identifier:myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/1e4310262889ebdf72b8a7b148acdf2a
  Approved at:Mon Jul 09 16:21:47 CDT 2012
  Is approved? true
  approvals >
</pre>
<p>
    Another option is the flag <code>-la</code> which will print all the details of <i>every</i>
    item it applies to. For instance, to get a dump of every approval record in detail issue
</p>
    <pre>
        approvals>ls -la
    </pre>
<p>The output is extremely lengthy however it is an easy way to get a text dump of a store. This flag has no
effect if it is given for a specific id. All that will happen is that details of that id will be printed in full.</p>
<h4><a name="update">Updating (aka Editing) Objects.</a></h4>
This will let you update or edit an existing object. The general function is shown below. Current object
values are shown in [ ]'s and simply hitting return will preserve the current value.
<br/>
<i>Example.</i> Edit a client record. In this case we want to make this client use limited proxies.
<pre>
    oa4mp >use clients
      clients >update /myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/6eb6ef83dbb89e7212cde073c7e682a4
      Update the values. A return accepts the existing or default value in []'s
        enter the identifier[myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/6eb6ef83dbb89e7212cde073c7e682a4]:
        enter the name[Another Ashigaru Gateway]:
        enter email[jgaynor@ncsa.illinois.edu]:
        enter error uri[http://ashigaru.ncsa.uiuc.edu:44444/client]:
        enter home uri[http://ashigaru.ncsa.uiuc.edu:44444/client]:
</pre>
Up to this point we have changed nothing and have hit return each time. Now we change the value:
<pre>
        does this client require limited proxies?[n]:y
        enter full path and file name of public key[-----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY----...]:
         public key entry skipped.
</pre>
That finishes the entry for the client. Had we wanted to change the public key, we would have supplied a
a file with complete path containing it. The system then prints out the entire new object and prompts us to save
it:
<pre>
        here is the complete client:
    Client name=Another Ashigaru Gateway
        identifier=myproxy:oa4mp,2012:/client/6eb6ef83dbb89e7212cde073c7e682a4
        email=jgaynor@ncsa.illinois.edu
        home uri=http://ashigaru.ncsa.uiuc.edu:44444/client
        error uri=http://ashigaru.ncsa.uiuc.edu:44444/client
        limited proxies? true
        creation timestamp=Thu Jun 28 13:46:31 CDT 2012
        approved by auto-approver
        public key:
      -----BEGIN PUBLIC KEY-----
    MIIBIjANBgkqhkiG9w0BAQEFAAOCAQ8AMIIBCgKCAQEAruhBa7EAnm8zDeBhNmuhYLUcij5pSr5r
    Z6481lhzvs0k+EtCsuDpr4RlcxUlX90uxF7ZsCjMSnk8pPr4e5HPu9lqr3wUb1TJbPbg3hdj/06O
    sJrOUYddVG5SmkafsCMmn+i5SrYq9vuWRsYVXZM36p/BzBzn4s4r6JqFzRWX71U9YybVCR72AIGi
    LClW2utUP3Q6axpDgkEXl6CuloGDshr1cMpct2/cpDqj6kpv5oV3WFUDiXf33kwqmBWjmXwCMTSu
    wAVhUmJNZ48YdnTQcotMURo9j5a1DBk1t2hKj/W7HqwT+TxnLgDu/cVxX5ZJDNTlgMaTbZKOFUhA
    MMnssQIDAQAB
    -----END PUBLIC KEY-----

        save [y/n]?y
        client updated.
</pre>
<h4><a name="create">Creating a new object</a></h4>
To create a new object, you must supply a unique identifier. This does not need to be escaped with a /.
Once created, you will be given the option of editing it.   You may enter any valid identifier
as long as it is a valid URI<br/>
<i>Example.</i> Crreating a new client. This will create a new client with a specified identifier.
If no identifier were supplied a random one would have been created.
<pre>
    clients >create my:new:client
    Created object with id "my:new:client"
</pre>
The object already exists in the store by this point. We will be given the option to edit it
(equivalent to issuing the update command against its unique id):
<pre>
      edit [y/n]?y
    Update the values. A return accepts the existing or default value in []'s
      enter the identifier[my:new:client]:
      enter the name[(null)]:My new client
      enter email[(null)]:foo@bar.baz
      enter error uri[(null)]:http://localhost/error
      enter home uri[(null)]:https:/localhost/home
      does this client require limited proxies?[n]:n
      enter full path and file name of public key[(null)]:
      No file entered. Public key entry skipped
</pre>
Now the completed, new client is displayed and we are prompted if we want to keep the changes.
<pre>
      here is the complete client:
    Client name=My new client
      identifier=my:new:client
      email=foo@bar.baz
      home uri=https:/localhost/home
      error uri=http://localhost/error
      limited proxies? false
      creation timestamp=Wed Nov 20 11:54:55 CST 2013
      no approval record exists.
      public key:
      none
      save [y/n]?y
      client updated.
</pre>
<h4><a name="rm">Removing Objects From the Store.</a></h4>
Removing an object. This will remove the object completely from the store. In the case of clients you
do not need to remove the corresponding approval -- it will be done automatically. However, if you remove
the approval record then the client is in effect unapproved until you re-approve it. To remove the client
we create with id <code>my:new:client</code> would look like the next
<br/>
<i>Example.</i> Removing an object by id
<pre>
    clients >rm /my:new:client
      Removing approval record
      Done. Client approval with id = my:new:client has been removed from the store
      removing client record
    Done. object with id = my:new:client has been removed from the store
</pre>
<b>Note</b> The remove command will happily remove objects by index, but remember that the indices of all
other objects change, so best practice is to only remove by identifier.
<h1>Invoking the components.</h1>

<h2><a name="clients">Clients</a></h2>
Invoke as
<pre>oa4mp> use clients</pre>
Operations allowed in addition to the standard ones are
<ul>
    <li>
        approve [index | /uniqueID]
    </li>
</ul>
This will prompt you for the information needed to make a new approval for the client with the given id.

<h2><a name="approvals">Approvals</a></h2>
Invoke as
<pre>oa4mp> use approvals</pre>
 There are no extra options beyond the standard ones, however, the <code>create</code> command
takes the unique id of the client record you are going to approve. Once created, you may enter the
approval information directly.

<h2><a name="copy">Copy</a></h2>
Invoke as
<pre>oa4mp>use copy</pre>
Supported operation is
<ul>
    <li>cp source target [-verify] - copy source to target optionally verifying</li>
</ul>
This works over the entire store. It has a single command that will allow you to make a copy
of one store (the source) that completely replaces another (the target). This is destructive, meaning
that the every object in the target is deleted, so no merge takes place. If the -verify option is used
then the two stores are compared once the copy has been completed. Note that this can be very time consuming
for a large store! However, if there is any question it is at times very useful.


<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->
</body>
</html>