<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Getting Started with OAuth for MyProxy</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->
</head>

<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->

<h1>Overview</h1>

<p>Welcome to OAuth for MyProxy! This is a delegation service for MyProxy. It allows clients to request certificates and
    users to securely authorize them using the OAuth delegation protocol. Current release is <strong>3.0</strong>.</p>

<h2>Prerequisites</h2>
<ul>
    <li>Tomcat 7 or above. This will not work with Tomcat 6 or lower because of internal changes to Java.
    (In particular, the way JSP is handled.)</li>
    <li> SSL should be configured and enabled. Either in Apache (if you are deploying Tomcat as pass through) or
        in Tomcat directly. Note that if you do enable SSL in tomcat, you must un-comment the
        security constraint block in the web.xml deployment descriptor after you deploy the war.
    </li>
    <li>Java 1.8. <strong>Note:</strong> Open JDK is <em>not</em> supported. Only the Oracle/Sun JVM is
        supported. Note especially that Oracle/Sun Java 1.7 or earlier will not work.
        This is because of changes to their security APIs.
    </li>
    <li>Some form of persistent storage. This may be a file system, MySQL or PostgreSQL.</li>
    <li>Java mail. This must be configured regardless if notifications are set. Read <a
            title="OAuth for MyProxy: Email Notifications"
            href="server/configuration/server-email.xhtml">here</a> for details.
    </li>
    <li>Maven 3.0 or above (if building from the source)</li>
    <li>Possibly either the latest <a href="http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/j/">MySQL
        connector</a>. <a href="https://downloads.mariadb.org/client-java/+releases/">Maria DB client</a>
        or <a href="http://jdbc.postgresql.org/download.html">PostgreSQL jar</a>.
        If you are using one of these systems
        for storage, install them by dropping them in <code>$CATALINA_HOME/lib</code>. OA4MP used
        to bundle these in the wars, but since their licences conflicted with those of some of
        our users, we decided to simply let you supply them. If you are just using file-based storage,
        then you don't need either of these.
    </li>
    <li>Possibly JGlobus. If your server needs to issue limited proxies drop the most recent version
        of <a href="http://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/releases/org/jglobus/jsse/">JGlobus jsse</a>
        (at least 2.0.6) into <code>$CATALINA_HOME/lib</code> as well as, apparently
        <a href="http://oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/releases/org/jglobus/JGlobus-Core/">JGlobus-Core</a>
        (latest release seems to be 2.0.4)
        and the Bouncy Castle version that support these. Otherwise, you may omit this. Again, be sure you
        check for the version of Bouncy Castle that your version of JGlobus uses and use that as well.
        JGlobus-Core 2.0.4 includes Bouncy Castle classes.
    </li>
    <li>(Optional) Apache 2, configured to work with Tomcat.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Getting and deploying from the war.</h2>

<p>You may most easily a bare-bones version for testing by downloading the current reference war:</p>

<p><a title="OA4MP service war"
      href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/oauth.war">oauth-server-latest.war</a>
    <br></br>
    <a title="PGP signature"
       href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/oauth.war.asc">(PGP signature)</a>
</p>

<p>Download this, read to <a title="Server Configuration Reference Manual"
                             href="server/configuration/config-index.xhtml">configure
    the deployment</a>, and deploy it to Tomcat. The war, as delivered, cannot be run.You must do some minimal
    configuration at least before deploying it. </p>

<h2>Using the Maven Repository</h2>
Fortunately, OA4MP is hosted on the public Sonatype maven repository so that using the code simply requires you
add the right dependencies. There is no need to configure any repositories. Generally it is suggested that you
use the pre-compiled war.

<h3>Getting and building the source</h3>
If you need/want to customize the basic package, you would download the webapp module from
<a title="oa4mp sources" href="https://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/edu.uiuc.ncsa/myproxy-4.1-SNAPSHOT/oa4mp-webapp">source
    forge</a> by issuing
<pre>svn export https://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/edu.uiuc.ncsa/myproxy-4.1-SNAPSHOT/oa4mp-webapp</pre>
which has the correct dependencies in it. Build it by issuing
<pre>mvn clean install</pre>
and you should end up with a deployable war.

<h3>Writing your own webapp.</h3>

<p>If you decide to write your own webapp, you should use the following module:</p>
<pre>
    &lt;dependency&gt;
        &lt;artifactId&gt;oa4mp-server-oauth1&lt;/artifactId&gt;
        &lt;groupId&gt;edu.uiuc.ncsa.myproxy&lt;/groupId&gt;
        &lt;version&gt;4.1-SNAPSHOT&lt;/version&gt;
    &lt;/dependency&gt;
</pre>
<p>which will get the OAuth libraries and give you access to the configuration loader. </p>


<h2>Deploying to Apache</h2>

<p>If you need to deploy this to Apache, you need to add the following to the proxy_ajp.conf file (which, e.g., lives
    under /etc/httpd/conf.d in most unix distributions):</p>
<pre>ProxyPass /oauth/initiate ajp://localhost:8009/oauth/initiate</pre>
<pre>ProxyPass /oauth/authorize ajp://localhost:8009/oauth/authorize</pre>
<pre>ProxyPass /oauth/token ajp://localhost:8009/oauth/token</pre>
<pre>ProxyPass /oauth/getcert ajp://localhost:8009/oauth/getcert</pre>
<pre>ProxyPass /oauth/register ajp://localhost:8009/oauth/register</pre>
<p>These entries allow access to all parts of the process. <strong>Note</strong>: in the WEB-INF/web.xml file there is a
    section called security-constraint, which controls access to the webapp using Tomcat's SSL. This will conflict with
    access via Apache, so comment that section out if you are deploying to Apache. It is only needed in stand-alone
    Tomcat deployments.</p>

<h2>Setting up persistent storage</h2>

<h3>File-based storage</h3>

<p>You may store all information for the service in your local file system. It is important that you restrict access to
    it and back it up. Specifying the storage location in your configuration file is sufficient, since the system will
    detect if it exists and create anything it needs.</p>

<h3>MySQL</h3>

<p>In order to use MySQL for persistent storage, you must run the supplied script,
    <a title="mysql.sql install script" href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/mysql.sql">mysql.sql</a>
    to create all of the tables and users before your first use.</p>
<pre><code>mysql -u username -p &lt; <code>/path/to/file/mysql.sql</code></code></pre>
<p>(the username is an account (<em>root</em>, e.g.) which has sufficient privileges to create other users) which will
    prompt you for your password and run the file. If you do not accept the default account names, you must edit this
    file and replace all occurrences of them manually, as well as setting the passwords. This has to be done because of
    MySQL's very lousy support for variables. (Should you have to re-run the script, you should manually remove the
    users and database beforehand. These commands are commented out at the beginning of the file.) </p>

<h3>PostgreSQL</h3>

<p>Most Unix distros have this database installed by default. There is a specific script, <a
        title="PostGreSQL install script"
        href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/pg.sql">pg.sql</a>, that will
    create all the tables. All you should need to do is set the passwords near the top of the file. Then you would need
    to log in to the command line psql tool as the user postgres (this is the super user) and from that prompt issue</p>
<pre>\i /path/to/file/pg.sql</pre>
<p>The file contains default user, table, database and schema names, which you may change if you see fit (be sure to
    pass these along in your configuration file!). Again, you only need to edit the values at the top of the file,
    thanks to PostgreSQL's support for variables.</p>
<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->

</body>
</html>