<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>The MyProxy configuration</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->
</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->

<h2>The MyProxy Configuration</h2>

<p>This tag contains the MyProxy server configuration information.</p>
<table style="text-align: left; width: 50%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Name</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Default</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">host</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">localhost</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The host on which the MyProxy service resides.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">port</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">7512</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The port of the service</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">socketTimeout</td>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">0</td>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">The timeout for the connection, in ms.</td>
      </tr>
    <tr>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">serverDN</td>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">(none)</td>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">A server DN (distinguished name) to be used when checking the name returned by a MyProxy server
          <b>Note:</b> this may also be set globally for all MyProxy instances in the service tag. Note that setting this in a
          MyProxy element will over-ride the global setting.</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<p>Multiple MyProxy servers may be specified. These will be tried until one that is available is found. If none are
    available, then an exception will be thrown.</p>

<h3>Getting the trusted Roots</h3>

<p>The OAuth for MyProxy server acts as a front-end to an existing <a href="http://myproxy.ncsa.uiuc.edu/"
                                                                      target="_blank">MyProxy</a> server. The OAuth
    server can run on the same system as the MyProxy server or they can run on separate systems. To connect securely to
    the MyProxy server, the OAuth for MyProxy install must include a trusted CA certificates directory (in <code>/etc/grid-security/certificates</code>
    or <code>$HOME/.globus/certificates</code>). Since we're installing as a regular system user, we use the <code>myproxy-get-trustroots</code>
    command to create our <code>$HOME/.globus/certificates</code> directory.
    Alternatively, you can manually setup a <code>$HOME/.globus/certificates</code> directory using a CA distribution
    from <a href="https://dist.eugridpma.info/distribution/igtf/current/">IGTF</a> or <a
            href="https://www.xsede.org/security">XSEDE</a> or another trusted source. You will have to do this anyway
    if your platform does not have a myproxy client available.</p>
<pre>
$ myproxy-get-trustroots -s myproxy.ncsa.uiuc.edu
Bootstrapping MyProxy server root of trust.
New trusted MyProxy server: /C=US/O=National Center for Supercomputing Applications/OU=Services/CN=myproxy.ncsa.uiuc.edu
New trusted CA (9b95bbf2.0): /C=US/O=National Center for Supercomputing Applications/OU=Certificate Authorities/CN=CACL
Trust roots have been installed in /Users/jbasney/.globus/certificates/.
</pre>

<h3>Example 1.</h3>

<p>Omitting the tag means to accept the defaults. So all of these are equivalent:</p>
<pre>
(no tag)
&lt;myproxy/&gt;
&lt;myproxy host="localhost" port="7512"/&gt;
</pre>
<h3>Example 2. Specifying a host and port</h3>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
    &lt;service  name="my-server"&gt;
       &lt;myproxy host="myproxy.teragrid.org" port="1234" socketTimeout=20000/&gt;
       &lt;!-- more configuration --&gt;
    &lt;/service&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>
<p>Use the host at myproxy.teragrid.org with the port 1234 (instead of the default) with a timeout of 20000 ms. for the connection.
If the MyProxy server does not respond withing 20000 ms, the attempt will end.</p>

<h3>Example 3. Multiple servers</h3>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
    &lt;service  name="my-server"&gt;
       &lt;myproxy host="myproxy.bigstate.edu" port="9352"/&gt;
       &lt;myproxy host="myproxy.xsede.org"
       serverDN="CN=myproxy.xsede.org,OU=IGTF Server,OU=UIUC - NCSA,O=University of Illinois,L=Urbana,ST=IL,C=US,DC=incommon,DC=org"
    /&gt;
       &lt;myproxy host="myproxy.teragrid.org"/&gt;
       &lt;!-- more configuration --&gt;
    &lt;/service&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;

</pre>
<p>Use the myproxy server at myproxy.bigstate.edu with the non-standard port. If that fails, there are two other backup
    MyProxy servers to try. An exception is only raised if <b>all</b> of these fail and only the last failure
    is returned.<br/>
    <b>Note:</b> Listing any MyProxy servers means that localhost will not be tried unless explicitly added. <br/>
    <b>Note:</b> the server DN in this case will be applied to the myproxy.xsede.org server. In that case, there may be
several servers that actually handle the request and any of them may respond. The server name is checked using a reverse
DNS lookup, so this the common name (CN) in this DN must match that. </p>

<h2>Levels of Assurance</h2>

The MyProxy configuration allows you to specify multiple <i>levels of assurance</i>. A good discussion of them
as they are used in OA4MP can be found under the <a href="http://ca.cilogon.org/loa">CILogon</a> site. These are
elements
(there may be multiple) within the MyProxy element and support two properties:

<table style="text-align: left; width: 50%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Name</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Default</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">name</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">-</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The name assigned to this level of assurance.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">port</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">-</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The port of the service</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

See the example in the next section for a use of this.

<h2>Using MyProxy with a Client Certificate</h2>
MyProxy may also be used by an OA4MP server with a client certificate (remember that the OA4MP
server in this case is a client of the MyProxy server to help keep this straight).
This means that rather than sending the username and
password to the MyProxy Server, there is a trust relationship so that only the username need be supplied. Of course,
setting this up with a MyProxy server requires issuing a client certificate so it not trivial. In this case,
the <a href="common/configuration/keystore.xhtml">keystore</a> that the OA4MP server must use will be required. It is an
additional element within the myproxy
element.


<h3>An Example</h3>

Consider the following server configuration with the given MyProxy configuration:
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;service  name="my-server"&gt;
       &lt;myproxy host="myproxy.bigstate.edu" port="7512"&gt;
             &lt;loa name="openid" port="7516"/&gt;
             &lt;loa name="http://incommonfederation.org/assurance/silver" port="7514"/&gt;
             &lt;keystore path="/var/www/config/hostcred.p12"
                       type="pkcs12"
                       password="my-weird-password"
                       factory="SunX509"
                       useJavaKeystore="true"/&gt;
       &lt;/myproxy&gt;
       &lt;!-- lots more configuration --&gt;
   &lt;/service&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>

In this case, there is a basic Myproxy server residing at port 7512 on the machine myproxy.bigstate.edu. This same
server
also supports two additional levels of assurance. A custom keystore which contains the client certificate MyProxy
accepts
is also configured.
<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->

</body>

</html>