<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Refresh Tokens and User Information</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->

</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->
<h1>Refresh Tokens</h1>
Refresh tokens are specific to the OAuth 2 specification and are only available in that version of OA4MP.
Generally a user needs an access token in order to retrieve a protected asset (such as
a certificate chain).

<h2>How's it work?</h2>
After a user authenticates, the client can request an access token. It is the access token that allows a client
to get a certificate. Access tokens are normally fairly short-lived, on the order of 15 - 20 minutes
since if one is stolen, a rogue user could (possibly) use it. The problem with this is that
every time a user wants a certificate, s/he must authenticate. If the client is allowed to retrieve certificates on
behalf of the user, that is awfully inconvenient.
<p>Fortunately, there are <b>refresh tokens</b>. A refresh token is given to the client and allows it to
get an access token. The refresh token includes a lifetime, typically 15 days, though the user can request
more or less. </p>

<h3>So how do I use it?</h3>
Generally if you are a user, you don't need to know anything else past this point.

<p>If you are writing to the API though, you need to know the particulars of managing refresh tokens.
Both tokens (access and refresh) are stored locally as part of the Asset.
To get another access token,
you need to submit a refresh token request along with the current refresh token. You will receive a new access token
back along with a new refresh token, valid for as long as the first. All of this is managed in the
single <code>getRefreshToken</code> call
of the API, so you don't need to sweat over the details. Just make this call whenever you need a new access token and
one will be retrieved.</p>

<h3>An example. </h3>
Remember that the initial request from the client requires an system-supplied identifier that will be used henceforth.
The next example creates one and then uses it to retrieve a refresh token.

<pre>
    OA2ClientEnvironment ce = OA2ClientEnvironmentUtil.load("/path/to/config.xml", "name-of-config");
    OA2MPService service = new OA2MPService(ce);
    String id = "my:new:id/42";
    // Use the webapp to do the authentication. When that is done, you will have
    // an asset that contains the private key, cert request, access token, refresh token and identifier
    // So now the scenario is that the client needs to get another certificate. The refresh token
    // allows this to be done without having the user re-authenticate.

    Asset2 asset = service.refresh(id);
    service.getCert(asset);
    // Now you have the new certs. Access them as per usual, e.g.
    X509Certificate[] cert = asset.getCertificates();
</pre>

<h1>User Information</h1>
User information is just information about the user that the server can return. The only basic information that is
guaranteed is the name the user supplied to log on to MyProxy. Many other bits of information may be supplied by
a server but this is up to the organization and its policies. The user must logon first via  browser and then the call
can be made.

<h3>User Info Example</h3>

This example is very similar to the one above in set up:
<pre>
    OA2ClientEnvironment ce = OA2ClientEnvironmentUtil.load("/path/to/config.xml", "name-of-config");
    OA2MPService service = new OA2MPService(ce);
    String id = "my:new:id/42";
    // assuming that the user has authenticated by this point
    UserInfo userInfo = service.getUserInfo(id);
    userInfo.getName();
</pre>
<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->

</body>
</html>