<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Client Configuration Parameters.</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->
</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->

<h2>Client Configuration Parameters.</h2>

<p><a id="tags">These are values that the client needs to supply to identify itself.</a> These are</p>

<table style="text-align: left; width: 100%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required?</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Default</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Description</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">privateKeyFile</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N/A</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Used by OAuth 1.0a based clients and servers. The full path to the client's pk8
            encoded private key.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">publicKeyFile</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N/A</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Used by OAuth 1.0a based clients and servers. The full path to the client's pem
            encoded public key. This was uploaded to the
            server at registration time.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">secret</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N/A</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"><span style="background-color: #ff6600;">OAuth 2</span> specific. The
            secret that is given to the client at registration. This should be cut and pasted with no blanks or other
            characters into the configuration file. Note that the server does not store this! It will only store
            a hash of it so if you lose it, you must re-register.
        </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">serviceUri</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N/A</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The address of the service this client uses.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">callbackUri</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N/A</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The redirect address to which the user is sent after authorization.
            Note that this can be reset at runtime before the call is made, should you want to customize it per user.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">initiateUri</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">ServiceUri + /initiate</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">(OAuth 1.0a only.) The address which the client should use for the
            first leg of the interaction. Normally
            this is constructed from the serviceUri and should only be set explicitly by the server administrator
            if needed.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">authorizeUri</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">ServiceUri + /authorize</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">(OAuth 1.0a and <span style="background-color: #ff6600;">OAuth 2</span>.) The address
            which the client should use for authorization. Normally
            this is constructed from the serviceUri and should only be set explicitly by the server administrator
            if needed.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">accessTokenUri</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">ServiceUri + /token</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">(OAuth 1.0a and <span style="background-color: #ff6600;">OAuth 2</span>.)
            The address which the client should use for getting
            the access token. Normally
            this is constructed from the serviceUri and should only be set explicitly by the server administrator
            if needed.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">assetUri</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">ServiceUri + /getcert</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">(OAuth 1.0a and <span style="background-color: #ff6600;">OAuth 2</span>.) The address
            from which the client will get the certificate. Normally
            this is constructed from the serviceUri and should only be set explicitly by the server administrator
            if needed.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
         <td style="vertical-align: top;">userInfoUri</td>
         <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
         <td style="vertical-align: top;">ServiceUri + /userinfo</td>
         <td style="vertical-align: top;">(<span style="background-color: #ff6600;">OAuth 2</span> only.) The address
             from which the client will get user information. Normally
             this is constructed from the serviceUri and should only be set explicitly by the server administrator
             if needed.
         </td>
     </tr>

    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">id</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N/A</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The unique identifier generated by the server during the registration
            process.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">lifetime</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">43200</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The requested lifetime in seconds this certificate should last. The service
            will always apply its own policies to any request. The default is 12 hours.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">enableAssetCleanup</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">false</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Whether the service will automatically remove old assets in the store.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">showRedirectPage</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">false</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Whether to pause the exchange to show a page containing the redirect URL
            and the private key. Set this to <b>true</b> to enable. Generally this is rather useful in debugging but
            should not be enabled in production systems. Note that this only applies to OAuth 1.0a since the protocol
            under <span style="background-color: #ff6600;">OAuth 2.0</span> is different.
        </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">maxAssetLifetime</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">2592000 (one calendar month in seconds)</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The maximum age, in seconds, that an asset may be in the store. This only
            applies if the cleanup facility is enabled and the OAuth version is 1.0a. In the
            <span style="background-color: #ff6600;">OAuth 2.0</span> version
            this is ignored, since cleanup of old assets is determined by the lifetime of the refresh token.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">keypairLifetime</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">0</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The maximum age, in seconds, for the client-side generated keypair
            to be cached. Keypair caching reduces key generation load on heavily used clients by re-using
            a keypair across OAuth sessions. This functionality should only be used if the keypair remains
            secured in the OAuth client and is not externally exposed. It affects the
            keypair used to generate certificate requests and is not the same as the OAuth keypair
            created at registration. Setting the value to zero forces the client to generate a new keypair with
            each request. This keypair is stored in the asset for the request.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">skin</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N/A</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The skin that the site will display for this client. This lets OA4MP servers
            mimic the look and feel of the client site. You should contact the server administration to set this up
            with you if you are interested.
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<p>If any of the required parameters are omitted, then an exception will be raised. The certificate lifetime may be
    omitted. If present, it will be processed in accordance with the service's cert lifetime policies and there is no
    requirement that the requested lifetime be honored.</p>

<h3>Example 1. A standard configuration for an OAuth 1.0a-based client</h3>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;client&gt;
      &lt;callbackUri&gt;http://client.example.org/client/ready&lt;/callbackUri&gt;
      &lt;privateKeyFile&gt;/var/www/config/security/oauth-privkey.pk8&lt;/privateKeyFile&gt;
      &lt;publicKeyFile&gt;/var/www/config/security/oauth-pubkey.pem&lt;/publicKeyFile&gt;
      &lt;serviceUri&gt;https://server.example.org/oauth&lt;/serviceUri&gt;
      &lt;lifetime&gt;864000&lt;/lifetime&gt;
      &lt;keypairLifetime&gt;0&lt;/keypairLifetime&gt;
      &lt;id&gt;myproxy:delegation,2011:/client/7f1105e2728871223445cafe&lt;/id&gt;
      &lt;<a href="storage.html">fileStore</a> path="/path/to/asset/store/"&gt;
          &lt;assetStore/&gt;
      &lt;/fileStore&gt;
      &lt;enableAssetCleanup&gt;true&lt;/enableAssetCleanup&gt;
      &lt;maxAssetLifetime&gt;865000&lt;/maxAssetLifetime&gt;
   &lt;/client&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>
<p>The certificate lifetime is specified to 864000 seconds (10 days). The file system will be used for assets
    and the system will automatically cleanup old entries that are more than 865000 seconds (a wee bit more than 10
    days)
    old. The keypairLifetime set to zero means each certification request will have a new keypair generated for it.
    Please note that the <a href="storage.html">fileStore</a> does require some specific configuration
    based on your installation.
</p>

<h3>Example 2. A standard configuration for an OAuth 2.0-based client</h3>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;client&gt;
      &lt;callbackUri&gt;http://client.example.org/client2/ready&lt;/callbackUri&gt;
      &lt;secret&gt;bwM9YgIMM4oMeOTZdJLyp8shgfuzrwWHxS401pEx8w2_BOk5ip46zJL_bsTj2bU5iuS7QsiGmze44pA2k3MhYuPGOkSSMpUEkpXI9KZqY_OVGOI8B3JYj8q0ZWP80hkmshwzYQiHOz5IJW7KZpMOQSKVG5lbmP0_iSwPim74WwH9akuc_3pocIntA5OfVtRKl0LCAz1WkXUSbF5sH6-xx8SWPJvaU0rc95jmxXqUxib3iXwYgheo1yyrvK4RHsStppZD9RmcwgyhLxvgUDap-23tm&lt;/secret&gt;
      &lt;serviceUri&gt;https://server.example.org/oauth2&lt;/serviceUri&gt;
      &lt;id&gt;myproxy:delegation,2011:/client/c43d987fedbf7c3258973fdedc8&lt;/id&gt;
      &lt;<a href="storage.html">fileStore</a> path="/path/to/asset/store/"&gt;
          &lt;assetStore/&gt;
      &lt;/fileStore&gt;
      &lt;enableAssetCleanup&gt;true&lt;/enableAssetCleanup&gt;
   &lt;/client&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>
<p>
    The secret that is sent to the server is put in without linebreaks. The keypair lifetime is omitted which means that
    the client will take the default (currently a new keypair will be generated once every 24 hours.)
    There is no maxAssetLifetime parameter here since that is not needed in OAuth 2.0-based clients. However, asset
    cleanup is still enabled.
</p>


<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->

</body>
</html>
