<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Storing Delegated Assets</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->
</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->

<h2>Storing Delegated Assets</h2>
Once delegation is complete, clients will want to retrieve the private key, certificate chain and
other items. The OA4MP client comes (as of 1.0.6) with a new storage system for these. Features are
<ul>
    <li>Seamless integration. If an asset store is configured, assets are added automatically bythe system</li>
    <li>Support for file-based as well as SQL-based storage</li>
    <li>Simple API.</li>
</ul>
If you need to access the results elsewhere, such as in another servlet or even in another application
then persistent storage of results is must. <b>Note</b> that
if you do not configure storage, then a warning message will be entered in the log and any assets will
be kept in an in-memory store. If you have no further need of assets, then you can safely ignore this feature.
<h2>How it works in a Nutshell</h2>
Each delegation request results in an Asset being created. There are various stores available. These are
<ul>
    <li><a href="common/configuration/memory-store.xhtml">memory</a></li>
    <li><a href="common/configuration/file-store.xhtml">file system</a></li>
    <li><a href="common/configuration/mysql-store.xhtml">MySQL</a></li>
    <li><a href="common/configuration/mariadb-store.xhtml">Maria DB</a></li>
    <li><a href="common/configuration/postgres-store.xhtml">PostgreSQL</a></li>
</ul>

<h3>New Store Creation</h3>
To create a new store has different requirements, depending on the store. For an memory only store, you need do
nothing more that have an entry in the configuration file. Same for a file store. For an SQL-backed
asset store, you should run either the install script for <a
        href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/client/mysql.sql">mysql, Maria DB</a>
or <a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/client/postgres.sql">postgreSQL</a>.
These also presume database administration access to set them up.

<h3>The Asset object</h3>
Asset stores contain assets. An asset is a java bean populated by various bits of useful information.
<table style="text-align: left; width: 100%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody title="Asset properties">
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Property name</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Mutator</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Comment</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">identifier</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">getIdentifier, setIdentifier</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">A client generated unique string (this is URI) which identifies this. It will
            be stored as a cookie in the user's browser and this cookie will later be used to find the correct asset.
            This is
            necessary to keep the private key, username and certificates associated with each other. You specify this
            at the time of the initial request to the OA4MPService.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">username</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">getUsername, setUsername</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The name the system used when contacting MyProxy. This usually be the
            name the user supplied at login, although some servers (such as CILogon) use another alias.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">privateKey</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">getPrivateKey, setPrivateKey</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The private key that the system generated when requesting this certificate.
            The certificate is useless without this generally.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">certificates</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">getCertificates, setCertificates</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">An <i>array</i> of X509Certificate objects. This is the certificate chain
            returned
            from MyProxy. There is always at least one element after a sucessful delegation.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">redirect</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">getRedirect, setRedirect</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The URI that was returned by the OA4MP server and to which the user was
            redirected.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">creationTime</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">getCreationTime, setCreationTime</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The timestamp for when this asset was created. This is used by the
            automatic cleanup thread, if that facility is enabled or administrators may use this directly if they
            wish to implement their own aging/cleanup policies.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
           <td style="vertical-align: top;">accessToken</td>
           <td style="vertical-align: top;">getAccessToken, setAccessToken</td>
           <td style="vertical-align: top;">Get the current access token.  <span style="background-color: #ff6600;">OAuth 2.0</span>
               assets only.</td>
       </tr>
    <tr>
           <td style="vertical-align: top;">refreshToken</td>
           <td style="vertical-align: top;">getRefreshToken, setRefreshToken</td>
           <td style="vertical-align: top;">Get the current refresh token. <span style="background-color: #ff6600;">OAuth 2.0</span>
               assets only.</td>
       </tr>

    </tbody>
</table>
<h3>Adding assets</h3>

Normally assets are created and managed automatically during delegation. Be sure to wait until delegation has completed
before attempting to access
properties or they may not exist yet.

<h3>Asset retrieval and use</h3>
The ClientEnvironment is created at server startup from the configuration file.

<h3>Creating your own ClientEnvironment</h3>
Another possible use of the OA4MP client api is as a library to allow other applications to get assets from a store.
This
can be done quite simply by populating a client environment from the configuration file and invoking
its getAssetStore. Rather than hand-crafting an environment, it is best to use the right utility.
<h5>OAuth 1.0a</h5>
<pre>
ClientEnvironmentUtil.load(String configFilePath, String configName)
</pre>
<h5>OAuth 2.0</h5>
<pre>
OA2ClientEnvironmentUtil.load(String configFilePath, String configName)
</pre>

which returns a fully functional environment.
<h4>An example</h4>
You might specify the oa4mp-client-api as a dependency in another project. Then to get an asset there
you would do something like this for OAuth 1.0a (again, <span style="background-color: #ff6600;">OAuth 2.0</span>
        is identical aside from the first line):
<pre>
ClientEnvironment ce = ClientEnvironmentUtil.load("/path/to/config", "config-name");
Asset asset = ce.getAssetStore.get(identifier);
PrivateKey pKey = asset.getPrivateKey();
// etc., etc.
</pre>
where <code>identifier</code> is the unique identifier that was used when the asset was created.

<h3>Removing old assets</h3>
There are two ways to do this. You may either simply remove them manually by invoking the <code>remove</code>
method in the <code>AssetStore</code> or you can enable a worker thread to remove expired ones for you. The benefit
of using the thread is that it will also garbage collect incomplete assets (such as when a user starts
a delegation but does not complete it, for whatever reason) and generally keep the store
cleaner.
<h5>OAuth 1.0a</h5>
This is configurable and is enabled by adding the following elements to your configuration:<br/>
<pre>
    &lt;enableAssetCleanup&gt;true&lt;/enableAssetCleanup&gt;
    &lt;maxAssetLifetime&gt;10000&lt;/maxAssetLifetime&gt;
</pre>

The first enables the cleanup facility (default is no cleanup) and the second specifies, in seconds, the maximum
age of an asset. Typically this is at least as long as your site policy on the certificate lifetime itself.
<h5>OAuth 2.0</h5>
Only a single element is needed in the configuration file.
<pre>
    &lt;enableAssetCleanup&gt;true&lt;/enableAssetCleanup&gt;
</pre>
This enables automatic asset cleanup. The default is to have no cleanup.
The lifetime of an asset is determined by the refresh token's stored lifetime, since it is impossible
to get another access token one the refresh token expires without having the user authenticate. If
you supply a <pre>maxAssetLifetime</pre> in your configuration, it will be ignored.
<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->

</body>
</html>