<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Logging</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->
</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->
<h2>Logging</h2>

<p>Scope: client and server, all versions.</p>

<table border="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Attribute</td>
        <td>Required?</td>
        <td>Default</td>
        <td>Description</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>logFileName</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>logging.xml</td>
        <td>The default file is deposited in the invocation directory. If the entire path is given, that will be used.
            NOTE: the path must exist or logging will fail to initialize. I.e., no paths are created.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>logName</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>"oa4mp"</td>
        <td>The name prepended to each entry in the log file. This is especially useful if several instances of oa4mp
            are running and you wish to pipe the log messages to a single location.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>logSize</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>0</td>
        <td>The maximum size of the file before the system rolls it over. If rotating files is enabled (by setting the
            logFileCount greater than 1), then logs are rotated. Otherwise, the log file is simply over-written
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>logFileCount</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>1</td>
        <td>The total number of files to have in the rotation. If the count it less than or equal to 1, then only a
            single log file is maintained.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>disableLog4j</td>
        <td></td>
        <td>true</td>
        <td>Disable log4j. If you are using log 4 java then set this to "false". Since there are potential conflicts
            with log4j the default is to set this to "true".
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>debug</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>"false"</td>
        <td>Enable system-wide debugging. This is equivalent to setting the debug attribute in the service tag.
            Acceptable values are "true" or "false". Anything other than "true" is interpreted as meaning "false".
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<p>Note that not specifying a log file will still cause one to be created. If you are enabling rotation of log files, be
    advised that the name will be interpreted according to Java's logging standard. This means specifying a log file
    like "/var/www/logs/mylog.log" would create a sequence of files named mylog.log.0, mylog.log.1, ... with the first
    of these (*.0) being the current log.</p>

<h3>Server Example.</h3>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
    &lt;service name="my-config"&gt;
       &lt;logging
          logFileName="/var/www/log/oa4mp.xml"
          logName="oa4mp"
          logSize="1000000"
          logFileCount="2"
          debug="true"/&gt;
    &lt;!-- rest of config --&gt;
    &lt;/service&gt;
 &lt;/config&gt;
</pre>
<p>In this example the log files named "oa4mp.xml.*" are created in the directory "/var/www/log".
    The maximum size of a single file is 100000 and there will be 2 files in the rotation, numbered 0
    (active) and 1. In this case, debugging is enabled for the application.
    All log entries are prepended with the label "oa4mp", so that if multiple applications use the same
    log file, the entries are qualified.</p>

<h3>Client Example</h3>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
    &lt;client name="client-config"&gt;
       &lt;logging
          logFileName="/var/www/log/oa4mp.xml"
          logName="oa4mp"
          logSize="1000000"
          logFileCount="2"
          debug="true"/&gt;
    &lt;!-- rest of config --&gt;
    &lt;/client &gt;
 &lt;/config&gt;
</pre>

Ditto the description above.
<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->

</body>
</html>