<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>The Memory Store Configuration</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->
</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->
<h2>The Memory Store Configuration.</h2>

<p>Scope: client and server, all versions.</p>
<p>This will persist items in system memory. This is extremely useful in cases where long-term storage is not required
    or for a quick testing environment.</p>

<h3>A Server Example</h3>

<p>There are no attributes to configure. A very minimalist example of a server configuration would be</p>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
    &lt;service name="default-cfg"&gt;
    &lt;myproxy host="myproxy.teragrid.org" port="7514"/&gt;
    &lt;/service&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>

<p>Would point to a service on localhost and use the given MyProxy service. All information would be stored in memory,
    and there is no mail notifications enabled, so this is not useful for production, but would allow for a very quick
    setup and test.</p>

<h3>A Client Example</h3>

An example for a client where assets are to be kept in memory would be
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
    &lt;client name="my-cfg"&gt;
       &lt;memoryStore&gt;
          &lt;<a href="client/dtd/asset-store.xhtml">assetStore</a>/&gt;
       &lt;/memoryStore&gt;
       &lt;!-- other stuff --&gt;
    &lt;/client&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>


<h3>Default Memory Storage</h3>

<p>This is enabled, which means that if a component does not have explicit storage of some sort declared, a memory store
    will be used. If you wish to disable this feature, you may do so by setting the following flag in your
    configuration:</p>

For servers:
<pre>
    &lt;config&gt;
    &lt;service name="my-config"
            disableDefaultStores="true"
    &gt;
</pre>

<br/>etc...

For Clients

<pre>
    &lt;config&gt;
    &lt;client name="my-config"
            disableDefaultStores="true"
    &gt;
</pre>

<p>It is generally advisable to disable this feature in production environments since if there is a missing storage
    configuration an error will be generated. If you wish to use a memory store, simply configure one explicity.</p>
<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->

</body>
</html>