<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>OAuth for MyProxy: MySQL Configuration</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->
</head>
<body  class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->
<h2>OAuth for MyProxy: MySQL Configuration</h2>

<p>Scope: client and server, all versions.</p>
<p>This configures a <a href="http://www.mysql.com">MySQL</a> store. There are several options, but most of them are
    optional. Generally the schema, tablename and such use the default. Any option prefixed with a * in the table will
    have its default used. Note that there may be many MySQL stores for a configuration if each of them, <i>e.g.</i>
    requires different connection information.</p>
<table style="text-align: left; width: 100%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Attribute</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required?</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Default</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Description</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">username</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N/A</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The name of the user to use</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">password</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N/A</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The password for the user</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">host</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">localhost</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The host. (localhost)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">port</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">3306</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The port for the connection. (3306)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">driver</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">current</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The JDBC driver</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">database</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The name of the database.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">schema</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The schema for the database</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">prefix</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">(none)</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">An optional prefix for the table.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">useSSL</td>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">false</td>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">Try to connect to the database using SSL support. This presumes you
          have configured the database to use SSL.</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<p><br/> The content of the store is specified in one of the content tags.</p>

<h2>Getting install scripts.</h2>
The latest installation scripts for all versions are listed here:
<ul>
    <li><a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/mysql.sql">OA4MP server install script</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/oauth2-mysql.sql">OA4MP OAuth2 server install script</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/client/mysql.sql">OA4MP client install script</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/client/oauth2-mysql.sql">OA4MP OAuth2 client install script</a></li>
</ul>

You may just cut and paste them from the file into the command line interface or execute them as scripts. Be sure to
read the comments since you may want to customize them to fit your installation.

<h3>Example 1.</h3>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;service name="atmos-physics&gt;
      &lt;mysql username="foo"
          password="bar"
          schema="atmos"
          database="climate"
          useSSL="true"&gt;
         &lt;transactions/&gt;
      &lt;/mysql&gt;
      &lt;!-- other stuff --&gt;
   &lt;/service&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>

In this example, there is a mysql store for the transactions only which uses the given username and password to
connect over SSL.


<h3>Example 2.</h3>

<p>The table prefix is optional. It is a string that is prepended to the table in order to give a "poor man's namespace
    qualification." In the case of MySQL, there is actually no schema support and the schema and database name are
    considered the same (the database name wins if they are different). The prefix lets you fix that if you need to. For
    instance if the table name is "myTable" and the prefix is "a" all access is to the table named "a_myTable",
    so when considering using this you should not exceed total name length requirements. Allowing
    prefixes allows for multiple tables to reside in the same database. One plus with this is that it allows
    for having multiple OA4MP clients and servers use a single database if that is all that is available.</p>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;service name="my-config" address="http://chem.bigstate.edu/grid/oa4mp"
      &lt;mysql username="chem-server" password="fnord" prefix="xup" database="chem"&gt;
         &lt;transactions/&gt;
      &lt;/mysql&gt;
      &lt;!-- other stuff --&gt;
      &lt;mysql username="chem-client-admin"
                password="otherfnord"
                prefix="xac"
                database="chem"
                useSSL="true"&gt;
         &lt;client/&gt;
         &lt;clientApprovals/&gt;
      &lt;/mysql&gt;
   &lt;!-- other stuff --&gt;
   &lt;/service&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>
<p>Creates a server which allows for accessing the tables under two different accounts.
    Note the use of prefixes. The first has a prefix of
    "chem" (so the fully-qualified table name is chem.xup_transactions) and the second has a
    prefix of "xac", so the tables there are chem.xac_clients and chem.xac_clientApprovals.
    The second has SSL enabled for its connections.
    This allows administrators to have a more fine-grained approach to access.</p>

<h2>A Client Example</h2>
<p>In the next example, a fully functional MySQL client asset store is configured.</p>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
    &lt;client name="my-cfg"&gt;
       &lt;mysql username="sinead"
          password="eringobragh"
          database="oa4mp"
          prefix="client"&gt;
          &lt;<a href="client/dtd/asset-store.xhtml">assetStore</a>/&gt;
       &lt;/mysql&gt;
       &lt;!-- other stuff --&gt;
    &lt;/client&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>
which stores all the assets created by the client in the database named "oa4mp" and in the table named
"client_assets".
<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->
</body>
</html>