<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>The PostgreSQL Configuration</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->
</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->
<h2>The PostgreSQL Configuration</h2>

<p>Scope: client and server, all versions.</p>

<p>This configures a <a href="http://www.postgresql.org">PostgreSQL</a> store. There are several options, but most of
    them are optional. See the document on setting up the database and follow the instructions there before trying to
    connect with it. Note that there may be many stores for a configuration if each of them, <i>e.g.</i>
    requires different connection information.</p>
<table style="text-align: left; width: 100%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Attribute</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required?</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Default</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Description</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">username</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N/A</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The name of the user to use</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">password</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N/A</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The password for the user</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">host</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">localhost</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The host. (localhost)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">port</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">5432</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The port for the connection.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">driver</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">org.postgresql.Driver</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The JDBC driver (current)</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">database</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"><span style="font-style: italic;">spec</span></td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The name of the database.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">schema</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"><span style="font-style: italic;">spec</span></td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The schema for the database</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">tablename</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"><span style="font-style: italic;">spec</span></td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The name of the table for this.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">prefix</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">(none)</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">An optional prefix for the table.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">useSSL</td>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">false</td>
          <td style="vertical-align: top;">Try to connect to the database using SSL support. This presumes you
          have configured the database to use SSL.</td>
      </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<p><br/> The <span style="font-style: italic;">spec</span> refers to the specification. Defaults are given there and
    applied.</p>


<h2>Getting install scripts.</h2>
The latest installation scripts for all versions are listed here:
<ul>
    <li><a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/pg.sql">OA4MP server install script</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/server/oauth2-pg.sql">OA4MP OAuth2 server install script</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/client/postgres.sql">OA4MP client install script</a></li>
    <li><a href="http://svn.code.sf.net/p/cilogon/code/tags/latest/client/oauth2-postgres.sql">OA4MP OAuth2 client install script</a></li>
</ul>

You may just cut and paste them from the file into the command line interface or execute them as scripts. Be sure to
read the comments since you may want to customize them to fit your installation.
<h3>Example 1. Simple as it gets.</h3>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;server address="http://localhost/oauth"&gt;
      &lt;postgresql username="foo" password="bar" useSSL="true"&gt;
           &lt;transactions/&gt;
           &lt;clients/&gt;
           &lt;clientApprovals/&gt;
      &lt;/postgresql&gt;
   &lt;/server&gt;
&lt;config&gt;
</pre>
<p>Dumps everything into postgresql, uses the defaults for myproxy and disables mail notifications. Note that all the
    defaults for schemas &amp;c. are used. Also notice that the connection will run over SSL.</p>

<h3>Example 2. Multiple stores.</h3>

<p>In this case, there are multiple users who need specific access to stores.</p>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;server address="https://localhost/oauth"&gt;
      &lt;postgresql username="client-admin" password="changeme"&gt;
         &lt;clients/&gt;
      &lt;/postgresql&gt;
      &lt;postgresql usernname="approver-admin" password="changeme2"&gt;
         &lt;clientApprovals/&gt;
      &lt;/postgresql&gt;
      &lt;!-- other configuration as needed --&gt;
   &lt;/server&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>
<p>This will put the clients and approvals under two different accounts, neither of which requires SSL. The default MyProxy server is used. Since no
    store for the transactions are specified, they will reside in memory only.</p>

<p>Example 3. A really fancy one.</p>

<p>if you needed to specify a great deal of specific information about a table, here is how you would do it:</p>
<pre>
&lt;postgresql username="foo"
   password="bar"
   driver="org.postgresql.Driver"
   port="4771"
   schema="atmos"
   database="oauth"
   tablename="trans"
   prefix="ocd"&gt;
     &lt;transactions/&gt;
&lt;/postgresql&gt;
</pre>
<p>This specifies a (very) non-standard port for PostgreSQL as well as specific information about the database, schema
    and tablename. This looks in the database named oauth for the table <code>atmos.ocd_trans</code> and puts
    all transactions there.</p>
<h2>A Client Example</h2>
<p>In the next example, a fully functional PostgreSQL client asset store is configured.</p>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
    &lt;client name="my-cfg"&gt;
       &lt;postgresql username="fionna"
          password="sekret"
          schema="oa4mp"
          database="client"&gt;
          &lt;<a href="client/dtd/asset-store.xhtml">assetStore</a>/&gt;
       &lt;/postgresql&gt;
       &lt;!-- other stuff --&gt;
    &lt;/client&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>
This stores the assets in the schema named "oa4mp" in the database named "client" and in the default table
named "assets"
<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->

</body>
</html>