<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>The SSL element configuration</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->
</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->
<h2>The SSL Configuration</h2>

<p>
    <b>Note: The replaces the older keystore-only configuration.</b>
    It is much better because this allows you to wrap passwords in XML
    CDATA sections. The older keystore configuration used attributes in the tag which
    meant that many passwords could not be specified.
</p>

<p>
    This element is used by any component that requires a Secure Socket Layer (SSL) connection
    to server. Typically, a client of another machine (such as an OA4MP server that has a client
    certificate to use a MyProxy server) will configure the keystore section. A connection
    to another machine (such as to an LDAP server) requires a trust store. It is beyond the scope of
    this document to discuss these in detail.
</p>

<h3>The SSL Element</h3>

<p>
    This consists of either a truststore or keystore (or both) as needed.
    Either store is a collection of certificates and certificate chains. OA4MP uses SSL for a variety of
    things. An OA4MP server is a client to a MyProxy server, or possibly an LDAP server, hence it requires
    a keystore. An OA4MP client
    may need a specific truststore to connect to an OA4MP server that has a self-signed cert. These are
    the frequently occurring examples.

</p>
<table style="text-align: left; width: 50%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Name</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Default</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">debug</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">false</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Enabled low-level SSL debugging. This is <i>not</i> the same as enabling
            debugging for
            the server and will tell the SSL layer to print out everything it is doing, which is usually a huge amount
            of information.
            This is equivalent to setting the Java system property javax.net.debug to true.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">useJavaTrustStore</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">true</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Use the default Java trust store (which normally resides
            at $JAVA_HOME/lib/security/cacerts) in addition to the one given in the path. If this
            element is omitted it is the same as setting this option to "true". Generally, if this is disabled then no
            commercial certificates will be recognized by SSL. This might be useful in certain cases, but
            should probably be enabled (i.e. omitted) unless you have good reasons otherwise.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
         <td style="vertical-align: top;">tlsVersion</td>
         <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
         <td style="vertical-align: top;">--</td>
         <td style="vertical-align: top;">This will allow for setting the version of TLS used in SSL connections.
         The options are 1.0, 1.1 or 1.2. If this is omitted, then the default for the current version of Java (1.0 for Java 7, 1.2
         for Java 8) will be used.</td>
     </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

<h3>The Keystore Element</h3>

<p>
    A keystore provides credentials that allows a client to connect to a server.
</p>
<table style="text-align: left; width: 50%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Name</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Default</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">type</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">JKS</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The type of the keystore, e.g. "PKCS12" or "JKS".</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">password</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">-</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The password for the keystore</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">path</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">-</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The full local path to the keystore.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">factory</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">-</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The name of the factory, e.g. SunX509, which will be used to create the key
            manager factory. This creates any key managers. You should generally not need to change this.
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

<h3>The Trust Store Element</h3>

<p>
    A trust store is used to verify credentials from a server.
</p>
<table style="text-align: left; width: 50%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Name</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Default</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">type</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">JKS</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The type of the truststore, e.g. "PKCS12" or "JKS".</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">password</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">-</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The password for the trust store.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">path</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">-</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The full local path to the trust store.</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<h3>A Server example</h3>

<p>
    In this example for OAuth 2.0, the server specifies that the MyProxy server and an LDAP server
    are to be contacted via ssl. LDAP requires a truststore while MyProxy requires a client certificate
    that it issued be used.
</p>
<pre>
    &lt;service name="myconfig"&gt;
    &lt;ldap enabled="true"&gt;
          &lt;ssl debug="false"
               useJavaTrustStore="true"&gt;
               &lt;trustStore>
                   &lt;path&gt;/pt/oa2/etc/config/custom-trust-certs&lt;/path>
                   &lt;password&gt;&lt;![CDATA[sfdgfdf(*()(*]]&gt;&lt;/password>
               &lt;/trustStore&gt;
          &lt;/ssl&gt;
      &lt;!-- Rest of LDAP config --&gt;
    &lt;/ldap&gt;

    &lt;myproxy host="myproxy.bigstate.edu" port="7512"&gt;
         &lt;loa name="http://incommonfederation.org/assurance/silver" port="7514"/&gt;
         &lt;loa name="openid" port="7516"/&gt;
         &lt;ssl"&gt;
             &lt;keystore&gt;
                  &lt;path&gt;/opt/oa2/etc/config/hostcred.pk12&lt;/path&gt;
                  &lt;password&gt;&lt;![CDATA[QOFjkhuer73959%&amp;]]&gt;&lt;/password&gt;
                  &lt;type&gt;PKCS12&lt;/type&gt;
             &lt;/keystore&gt;
         &lt;/ssl&gt;
       &lt;/myproxy&gt;
    &lt;!-- Rest of config --&gt;

    &lt;/service&gt;

</pre>
<p>
    The LDAP configuration uses SSL and the assumed default Java trust store in addition to the customized
    trusted certificate store. The MyProxy configuration ill use the given keystore that contains exactly
    the host certificate for the MyProxy server and nothing else.

</p>

<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->
</body>
</html>