<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>The LDAP module.</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->

</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->

<h2>Introduction</h2>
<p><b>Deprecated. LDAP configurations are now per client not server-wide. </b></p>

<p>LDAP (Lightweight Directory Access Protocol) is a vendor-independent protocol for maintaining and accessing
    a distributed directory service. For OA4MP for OAuth 2.0, there is an optional claim source that will
    talk to an LDAP server and in turn let you populate the user information response with data from LDAP.
    This may be enabled or disabled in the configuration file. If the LDAP service is not available, then
    this is not treated as a serious error, but is merely logged. If this component is not configured, then
    it is ignored. Note that this applies to <b>every</b> call made to the server before any other configured claim
    sources for clients are invoked. This permits initially populating the claims with whatever the server deems is
    standard information.
</p>

<p>
    Note that there is one attribute for this tag <code>enabled</code> and the rest of the
    arguments are separate elements. The reason for this is simple: Attributes do not allow
    for arbitrary text (such as for a password). These are still recorded below in the table
    since this is an easy tabular format for this.
</p>
<table style="text-align: left; width: 50%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Name</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Default</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">address</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The fully qualified address for the LDAP server.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">port</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">636</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The port of the LDAP service</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">password</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The password for the LDAP server</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">principal</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The DN of the principal for authenticating the caller to the service.
            The format of the principal depends on the authentication scheme. If this property is unspecified,
            the behavior is determined by the service provider.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">searchBase</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Y</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The DN that is the starting point of the search.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">searchAttributes</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">A list of attributes to be returned. This
            limits the size of the result. Omitting this returns all possible
            applicable attributes from the server. This consists of a set of
            &lt;attribute&gt; elements, each of which can take special characters
            if needed. You may also specify the name that the result is returned under
            using the returnedAs attribute. See the example below.
        </td>
    </tr>

    </tbody>
</table>
<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->

<h3>An example</h3>
<pre>
    &lt;service name="myconfig&gt;
    &lt;ldap enabled="true"&gt;
         &lt;address&gt;ldap.bigstate.edu&lt;/address&gt;
         &lt;port&gt;636&lt;/port&gt;
         &lt;password&gt;&lt;![CDATA[asd8&quot;%5*96&lt;&lt;]]&gt;&lt;/password&gt;
         &lt;principal&gt;&lt;![CDATA[uid=admin_bob,ou=system,o=MESS,dc=foo,dc=baz,dc=org]]&gt;&lt;/principal&gt;
         &lt;searchBase&gt;&lt;![CDATA[o=MESS,dc=foo,dc=baz,dc=org]]&gt;&lt;/searchBase&gt;
         &lt;searchAttributes&gt;
                &lt;attribute&gt;eduPersonOrcid&lt;/attribute&gt;
                &lt;attribute returnedAs="isMemberOf"&gt;MemberOf&lt;/attribute&gt;
         &lt;/searchAttributes&gt;
         &lt;ssl debug="false"
              useJavaTrustStore="true"&gt;
              &lt;trustStore&gt;
                  &lt;path&gt;/opt/oa2/etc/cacerts&lt;/path&gt;
                  &lt;password&gt;&lt;![CDATA[sdj8956HJf^&amp;$#h]]&gt;&lt;/password&gt;
                  &lt;type&gt;&lt;PKCS12&gt;&lt;/type&gt;
              &lt;/trustStore&gt;
         &lt;/ssl&gt;
    &lt;/ldap&gt;
    &lt;/service&gt;
</pre>
<p>
    In this case the server is at the stated address and port. The (security) prinicipal's DN used
    in authentication is specified as well. The search base is the DN for where to start the search.
    There will be two search results attributes returned, "eduPersonOrcid" and "memberOf" (these are
    what is stored in LDAP). The results will however, be returned in the JSON as "eduPersonOrcid" (unchanged) and
    "isMemberOf" (rather than "memberOf"). In this case,
    a specific truststore is required for SSL to operate, whose full path and required password is given.
    The truststore is in PKCS12 format.
</p>
</body>
</html>