<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Content Tags.</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->
</head>
<body>
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->

<h2>Content Tags.</h2>
<p>The content tags (these are <b>not</b> attributes to a tag) specify what is retained
    in a store. These are</p>
<table style="text-align: left; width: 1148px; height: 165px;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Name</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Description</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Tag</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">transactions</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Transactions that are pending. These are generally short-lived and should not
            be persisted for extended periods.
        </td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">&lt;transactions/&gt;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">client</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Registered clients that the service knows about. These should be persisted</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">&lt;clients/&gt;</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">clientApprovals</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Approvals for clients. These should be persisted.</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">&lt;clientApprovals/&gt;</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<p>There is one optional attribute associated with any content tag and this is "tablename". In cases where the
    underlying store is an SQL store, you may use this to specify the table name, overriding the default. This attribute
    is ignored by other stores.</p>

<h3>Example 1.</h3>

<p>This puts the client approvals in a <a href="common/configuration/file-store.xhtml">file store</a></p>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;service address="localhost"&gt;
      &lt;fileStore path="/var/www/store"&gt;
         &lt;clientApprovals/&gt;
      &lt;/fileStore&gt;
   &lt;/service&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>
<h3>Example 2.</h3>

<p>Specifying the table name:</p>
<pre>
&lt;service name="postgres-config"
         disableDefaultStores="true"&gt;
    &lt;postgresql username="bob" password="mairzydoats"  schema="math" database="oa4mp"&gt;
       &lt;transactions tablename="transaction2"/&gt;
       &lt;clients tablename="gateways"/&gt;
       &lt;clientApprovals/&gt;
    &lt;/postgresql&gt;
    &lt;!-- other stuff --&gt;
&lt;/service&gt;
</pre>
<p>In this example, the default stores are disabled, so if there is some issue with the database configuration, memory
    stores won't be used, but starting the server will fail. Two of the tables have been created by the administrator
    with names different than in the default setup.</p>
<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->

</body>
</html>