<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Using the Authorization Header</title>
</head>
<body class="composite">

<h2>Using the Authorization Servlet</h2>

<p>OA4MP has an authorization module that is built in. This may be replaced by installations as
    needed. Part of the specification is that, if this is disabled, the username and information
    about the client making the delegation request <b>must</b> be shown. This is called
    <b>client verification</b> and is required by the OAuth protocol. You may have OA4MP
    do this or disable this as well, though it is encumbant on the installation to show this information.
    This results in 3 use cases:
</p>
<ol>
    <li><b>Replace authorization completely</b> In this case, you may write anything you like independent of
        OA4MP. CILogon, for instance, has its authorization layer written in PHP. You then notify OA4MP
    when you are done. </li>
    <li><a href="../manuals/remote-user.html">Use Tomcat</a> and have it manage users. This can work for
    very small systems.</li>
    <li><a href="../manuals/using-proxies.html">Use a proxy</a>, i.e., another OAuth server's authorization.</li>
</ol>
<p>The configuration has the elements for all three cases.</p>
<table border="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Attribute</td>
        <td>Required?</td>
        <td>Default</td>
        <td>Description</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>authorizationURI</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>--</td>
        <td>(Replace authorization case). This is the address of whatever application does the authorization.
        This must be specified so that it can be put into the well-known endpoint for discovery by
        other services. It is required in the replacement case, but otherwise will be generated as
        per standard location.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>useProxy</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>false</td>
        <td>(Proxy case) Valid values are "true" or "false".
            This flag determines whether or not to use a proxy for authorization. <br/>
            See also cfgFile and cfgName
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>cfgFile</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td></td>
        <td>(Proxy case) This is required if <b>useProxy</b> is true and ignored otherwise. This is the path
            to the <a href="https://ncsa.github.io/oa4mp/client/configuration/index.html">
                client configuration</a> file.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>cfgName</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td></td>
        <td>(Proxy case) This is required if <b>useProxy</b> is true and ignored otherwise.
            The name of the configuration within the cfgFile to use.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>localDFConsent</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>false</td>
        <td>(Proxy case) As per the OIDC specification, showing a consent screen is optional. When proxying,
            this will request that the proxy redirect the user back to the local service to use the consent
            screen there. Otherwise, the assumption is that the consent the user gave on the proxy
            is sufficient. Also, note that the request parameters used are OA4MP only, so if
            you are using another system for proxying, the request will be ignored by that proxy.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>useHeader</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>false</td>
        <td>(Tomcat case) Valid values are "true" or "false".
            This flag determines whether or not to enable this facility. Default is to not use this.
        </td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
        <td>requireHeader</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>false</td>
        <td>(Tomcat case) Valid values are "true" or "false". This flag forces the server to use the specified header.
            Note especially that if this is true and no such header is received then an exception is raised.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>headerFieldName</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>N/A</td>
        <td>(Tomcat case) The name of the header field to use. Generally this is <code>REMOTE_USER</code>, but this must
            be specified. Other fields are permissible.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>returnDNAsUsername</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>N/A</td>
        <td>(Deprecated) Valid values are "true" or "false". This flag forces the server to return the DN (distinguished name)
            on the certificate as the username, as opposed to the usual name of the user. This has nothing to do
            with enabling the use of the header field.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>convertDNToGlobusID</td>
        <td>N</td>
        <td>N/A</td>
        <td>(Deprecated) Standard DN's (Distinguished names) are comma separated. Some versions of Globus, however, require
            that these be slash delimited. Enabling this option will convert commas to slashes using Globus's
            own utility for doing this. This means that you must
            <a href="../manuals/getting-started.html">follow the installation instruction for JGlobus</a> to your Tomcat. Generally
            this option should rarely, if ever, be needed, so don't just enable it unless you are sure
            you know what it does and need it.
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

<h2>Example of each</h2>
<h3>A Proxy Example</h3>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;server name="my-config"&gt;
      &lt;authorizationServlet useProxy="true"
           cfgFile="/opt/oa4mp/etc/clients.xml"&gt;
           cfgName="cilogon-proxy"&gt;
      &lt;!-- rest of config --&gt;
   &lt;\server&gt;
&lt;\config&gt;
</pre>
<p>
    In this case, there is a service configured (you have registered a client with it)
    and you need to have calls for authorization forwarded to it. All you need to do
    is ensure the configuration in the file is correct and that your Tomcat web.xml
    file is set right and you are good to go. See more at
    <a href="../manuals/using-proxies.html">using prooxies</a>
</p>

<h3>Tomcat case, with the Remote User Header</h3>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;server name="my-config"&gt;
      &lt;authorizationServlet useHeader="true"
          headerFieldName="REMOTE_USER"/&gt;
      &lt;!-- rest of config --&gt;
   &lt;\server&gt;
&lt;\config&gt;
</pre>
In this case, use of authorization headers is enabled and a header named <code>REMOTE_USER</code>
will be used. If it is missing though, no exception will be raised. By default, the header field will
be shown to the user along with client information and the user will be prompted if s/he wishes to continue.
Be sure the enable the correct machinery in the web.xml file. The one supplied with the standard distribution
is annotated.

<h3>Replacing the authorization module</h3>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;server name="my-config"&gt;
      &lt;authorizationURI="https://address:port/my/auth_service"
          /&gt;
      &lt;!-- rest of config --&gt;
   &lt;\server&gt;
&lt;\config&gt;
</pre>
<p>This tells the system that the entire authorization is handled at the endpoint given and the
well-known file generated by OA4MP will point to that. See below for the particulars of how to
integrate it with OA4MP.</p>

<h3>Use cases</h3>
There are three main use cases which should be discussed in more depth. The particulars of how to configure
and authorization module are best dealt with elsewhere and a discussion can be found
<a href="../manuals/remote-user.xhtml">here</a>.
<h4>Using the OA4MP authorization module</h4>

<p>This is the default. In this case a logon will be shown to the user who will be prompted for the
    username and password. Since this page also contains the client information, the verification
    portion of the protocol is deemed satisfied. We highly recommend customizing the basic OA4MP page
    for a consistent look and feel in your site.</p>

<h4>Using another authorization module, but using OA4MP's verification page.</h4>

<p>In this case, the username and (possibly) password will be delivered in the header. We generally suggest that
    standard practice of using the <code>REMOTE_USER</code> header be used. Unless explicitly disabled,
    the verification page with the displayed username will be shown.</p>

<p>Options that may be configured here to</p>
<ul>
    <li>use the header</li>
    <li>required the header</li>
    <li>specify the header name</li>
</ul>

<p>Specifying that the header should be used implies that the header <i>may</i> be present. Since the
    username may be created also via an extension to the system (see below for details) the lack oof
    a header field is not an error. However, requiring the header will cause an exception if the header is not found.
    The default is to assume that the header is the <code>REMOTE_HEADER</code> field, though any field name
    may be specified.</p>

<h4>Completely replacing the authorization module.</h4>

<p>In this case the server must have some way of performing the client verification. You will need to write a webapp
    that completely takes over the functions at the <code>authorize</code> endpoint.
    (found in the <a href="../../apidocs/index.html">javadoc</a>)
    should then be deployed elsewhere and invoked by your webapp when it has the username and password (if needed).
    Note that it is up to you to keep access to this servlet safe. We normally suggest that access be restricted to
    localhost only, so that only your webapp has access to the <code>AuthorizationServlet</code>.
    The <code>AuthorizationServlet</code> accepts the following call directly:</p>
<table border="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td>Parameter key</td>
        <td>Parameter values</td>
        <td>Comment</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>oauth_token</td>
        <td>String</td>
        <td>This is the token sent to the authorize endpoint as per the specification and identifies this
            user's delegation request uniquely.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>AuthUserName</td>
        <td>String</td>
        <td>The username that will be sent unchanged to MyProxy</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td>AuthPassword</td>
        <td>String</td>
        <td>(Optional) the password the user will require to log in to MyProxy.</td>
    </tr>

    <tr>
        <td>lifetime</td>
        <td>int</td>
        <td>(Optional) The lifetime for the certificate. The client may request any value in the initial request,
            but server policies may override this here. If missing, the request sent by the client
            will be used and if there is none, any defaults will be used.
        </td>
    </tr>

    </tbody>
</table>


</body>
</html>