<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>Key Rotation</title>
</head>

<body class="composite">
<h2>Key rotation in OA4MP</h2>

<p>
    Signing keys for JSON web tokens (JWTs) are required. It is good practice to rotate, i.e., periodically
    invalidate and replace them, to ensure cryptographic integrity, limit long-term exploits, etc.
    Since many clients cache keys from the server, the basic policy is to set a date for the rotation to occur
    and on that date, issue new valid keys, setting the expiration for the current keys. The new keys are
    then made active immediately and used. The old keys remain available and the expiration is set to be the
    sum of the (expected) client's cache and the service's access token lifetime.
</p>
<p>
    The reson is that this lets clients refresh their cache and exchange/refrsh any access tokens before the old keys are invalidated.
    Do remember that refresh tokens are not signed, so even though they have very long lifetimes
    compared to access tokens, they play no role.
</p>

<table style="text-align: left; width: 50%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Name</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Default</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;"></td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">enabled</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">false</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Enable key rotation? If false, then <b>no</b> key rotation of the server keys
        will occur. If overrides are allowed, virtual issuers are, however, still permitted to set them.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">allowOverride</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">false</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">If virtual issuers can set their own key rotation policy. This means they
        may specify the grace periods for the cache and accesss token (if differnt from the </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">cacheGracePeriod</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">-1</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Keys <i>may</i> be cached by clients. This may be given in various <a href="../manuals/units.html">units</a>,
            but the default is in seconds. The policy will be set as the sum of this and the access token grace period.
            A value of -1 (default) means to just use the server's value.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">atGracePeriod</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">-1</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The duration of the access token grace period if different from the one configured for the server.
        A value of -1 (default) means to just use the server's value.</td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

<p>A typical server entry might be</p>
<pre>
    &lt;keyRotation enabled="true"
                 allowOverride="true"
                 cacheGracePeriod="24 hr"
                 atGracePeriod="6 hr"/&gt;
</pre>

<p>
   For more details see the <a href="../pdf/key-rotation.pdf">key rotation documentation</a>
</p>



</body>
</html>