<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>The Client Tag.</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->
</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->

<h2>The Client Tag.</h2>

<p>This is the top-level tag for a client configuration. There may be several of these in a single configuration
    file, all given different names.</p>
<table style="text-align: left; width: 100%;" border="1" cellspacing="2" cellpadding="2">
    <tbody>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Attribute</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Required?</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Default</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Description</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">name</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">(none)</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">An arbitrary name for this configuration. Multiple configurations in a file are
            supported.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">version</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">latest</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The version of the configuration file. If omitted, the most current is used.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">debug</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">"false"</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">Enable debugging for this service. This will be written to the Tomcat logs and
            might be rather verbose. Use it only if you need it.
        </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">disableDefaultStores</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">N</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">false</td>
        <td style="vertical-align: top;">The default behavior is to default
            to using a memory store if no other store is explicitly set. If set to true, this will make the server throw
            an exception if there is no store configured.
        </td>
    </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>
<p>The <span style="font-weight: bold;">name</span> can be anything. The name of the configuration to use may be
    specified in the deployment descriptor (web.xml) file. If there is a single configuration in the file, that will be
    used. If there are multiple configurations and no name is specified, an exception is raised.</p>

<h3>Example 1.</h3>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;client&gt;
      &lt;!-- more stuff --&gt;
   &lt;/client&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>
<p>There is a single configuration (so no name is needed) and every configuration default as per the table above
    will be used. However, the server address and other items must be configured or this will not work.</p>

<h3>Example 2.</h3>
<pre>
&lt;config&gt;
   &lt;client name="organic-test"
       debug="true"&gt;
       &lt;!-- more stuff --&gt;
   &lt;/client&gt;
   &lt;client name="organic"
       debug="false"
       disableDefaultStores="true"&gt;
       &lt;!-- more stuff --&gt;
   &lt;/client&gt;
&lt;/config&gt;
</pre>
<p>In this situation there are two client configurations, one for production <i>organic</i> and one for
    testing <i>organic-test</i>. The production server has turned off debugging and is configured so if
    storage is not explicitly created, an exception will be thrown. The test server will create in-memory stores
    as needed and all debugging is enabled.</p>
<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->

</body>
</html>