<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html
        PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN"
        "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
    <title>On the Expiration of various tokens</title>
    <!--#include virtual="../../head.html" -->

</head>
<body class="composite">
<!--#include virtual="../../header.html" -->
<h1>How tokens have their validity determined.</h1>
<p>There are various ways that the lifetime (or expiration time) of a given token can
be determined. The tokens types are</p>
<ul>
    <li><b>Authorization grants.</b> These are created in the first exchange with the server.
    These are generally not configurable by a client and are relatively short-lived,
    in the order of minutes.  These are exchanged for access tokens</li>
    <li><b>Access Tokens.</b> These are generated from the token endpoint of the service
    and are exchanged for the authorization grant. These may be of various formats such as
    SciTokens or the built-in generic URI format.</li>
</ul>
<p>Note on tokens and such. The server creates identifiers in its internal format which is designed to make it
globally unique, hence it is tied to the service itself. A typical grant for instance may be</p>
<pre>
    https://oa4mp.bigstate.edu:9443/oauth2/781ae055ce3ba811b05b8c9522a09d31?type=authzGrant&amp;ts=1610837891182&amp;version=v2.0&amp;lifetime=12345000
</pre>
<p>You may have the urge to feed that to a browser, but it is not an address, it is simply a unique string with semantics.</p>
<p><b>Note:</b> such unique strings are indeed checks as strings, so they must not be altered in any way. Sending
back the above example as </p>
<pre>
    https://oa4mp.bigstate.edu:9443/oauth2/781ae055ce3ba811b05b8c9522a09d31?type=authzGrant&amp;version=v2.0&amp;lifetime=12345000ts=1610837891182&amp;
</pre>
<p>with some of the arguments permuted (perfectly acceptable if this were an address) will result in an error. Part of
this requirement is to prevent forged tokens or replay attacks, so it will be enfroced. Generally just pass along the tokens
as they are.</p>

<h2>Server settings</h2>
<p>On the server, there are <i>maximum</i> values allowed. This means that no matter what any other request
tries to do, the server will enforce these limits. </p>
<p>The server will also apply <i>default</i> values if nothing else is specified. Typically these are
half what the maximum is, though administrators are free to set their own policies. Therefore, there
is no need to specify defaults per se, except in refresh tokens, where a value of zero is taken to
mean that no refresh tokens should be created.</p>

<h2>Client configurations</h2>
<p>Clients may have their access and refresh token lifetimes specified. These are again applied for </p>
<h3>The client configuration</h3>
<p>The configuration for a client has two properties, <b>at_lifetime</b> in milliseconds, which sets the default
access token lifetime for every client and <b>rt_lifetime</b> in milliseconds which is the value for
every refresh token. These may be overridden in, for example, the initial request or by scripting.
Even though they may be set to values, they are limited to the server maximum. </p>
<p>If you are administering your clients via the client management API, these may be set there.</p>
<p>A note on lifetime and policies. Access tokens allow for access to resources and as such should
be limited in their lifetime -- you very probably do not want an access token with a lifetime of a year
(the server default is 900 sec or 15 minutes). Refresh tokens are used to get access tokens and can
have a much longer lifetime, in the order of weeks or months. Typically you stash the refresh token
until you need an access token, then get an access token.</p>
<p>OIDC servers allow for an id token with various bits of user information in it. These are signed JWTs
   (JSON Web Token) and include both the access token and refresh token.
   The actual use of one is showing that the user successfully authenticated to the
   service. A common (and poor use) of them though is as a "poor man's" access token, because, as per the spec.,
   the lifetime of the id token is the same as the lifetime of the access token, and the id token can be verified
    against the issuing server, so its contents can be trusted. This cannot be condemned
   enough and you should not do it. There are formats of access tokens that are designed to be
   self-describing, such as SciTokens or WLCG tokens (both supported in OA4MP) so please use one of these
   instead.</p>

<h3>At the initial request.</h3>
<p>The initial request to the service may ask for either and access token lifetime (<b>at_lifetime</b>)
or a refresh token lifetime, <b>rt_lifetime</b>. These are typically in milliseconds, though you may
specify units for seconds or ms explicitly. E.g., this might be part of your POST to the service</p>
<pre>
...&amp;at_lifetime=1500 sec.&amp;rt_lifetime=25000000&amp;...
</pre>
<p>In this case, the client is requesting that access tokens have a lifetime of 1500 seconds and
refresh tokens have one of 25000000 milliseconds. The rt_lifetime could have also been specified as
<i>25000000 ms.</i> or <i>25000 sec.</i></p>
<p>Again, clients may request just about anything, but server policies will be enforced at all times,
so the actual lifetimes determined by the system may well be different. The only place these requests
will be honored is in the initial request. Any other time they are ignored (such as in the
token exchange).</p>

<h3>Token configurations</h3>
<p>Clients that need complex token configuration may specify lifetimes as parameters of the
token (this is stored in the clients <b>cfg</b> field. Example <b>cfg</b> entry for a client</p>
<pre>
    {"tokens": {
        "access":  {
            "audience": "https://wlcg.cern.ch/jwt/v1/any",
            "issuer": "https://test.cilogon.org",
            "lifetime": 750019,
            "type": "wlcg"
         }
      }
    }
</pre>
<p>In this case, a WLCG token will be created with the given audience and issuer. Note
that in this case, the lifetime <b><i>must</i></b> be in milliseconds and units are
not allowed (since it is in JSON format as an long integer).</p>

<h3>Scripting</h3>
<p>Inside scripts, which are specified in the token configuration if needed,
    the lifetime may be set to anything. Refer to QDL documentation for scripting
and how to do it. Again, server maxima are always enforced no matter what the values are set to.</p>

<h1>How do these all relate?</h1>
<p>The steps are</p>
<ol>
    <li>The maximum allowed lifetime is taken from the server configuration. </li>
    <li>The  lifetime is taken from the client configuration. This is the initial value of the <i>computed lifetime</i>.</li>
    <li>Token configurations are checked for lifetimes. If present, the minimum of this
        and computed lifetime is taken.</li>
    <li>Requested values are checked. If there was an explicit request for a lifetime, the
    minimum of that and the computed lifetime is taken.</li>
    <li>Scripts <i>may</i> determine lifetimes independent of the computed lifetime and set this. We stress
    <i>may</i> because this is an exceptional circumstance and does nto occur often.</li>
    <li>Finally, the minimum of the computed lifetime and the computed maximum is taken. This is the
    final value.</li>
</ol>
<!--#include virtual="../../footer.html" -->
</body>
</html>